1.
(Dad - Please save this as it is material for
s ' my book.
Thought you and mother might be interested. Of course,
truth is not always a virtue - in a book.
oo E. )
_ Suffering as I am from the kind ministrations of doctor
I cannot help but ruminate upon certain peculieeitios in
the human race. I am at present on the threshold of a
world tour....just like that, you see, I say "World Tour".
As a matter of fact I am not terribly excited. I have
business to do along the way and naturally I have no inten-
tions of neglecting the purely entertaining points of such
a trip. I have been stamped, instructed, advised, critici-
zed, envied, pitied, innoculated, vaccinated, and remons-
trated with, until I am now but a shadow of my former
robust self. I am even becoming slightly fearful of the
chances of my making such a trip and returning in an
upright position. When the idea of such a trip was first A
conceived, I was enjoying the best of health both in mind
and body. My cheeks had a touch of the necessary crimson,
my knees would jump in an astounding fashion if smartly
tapped in the proper spot, my eyes allowed me to read with
no trouble whatever, and my teeth permitted me to do proper
justice to a good tenderloin with my favorite chutney. My
mind was, to say the least, considerably at ease and there
were things few in number that could disturb its pleasant
and tranquil equilibrium. My friends and relatives regard-
ed me as a slightly less than necessary mass of flesh and
my tailor nodded in a distinctly patronizing fashion on the
occasion of my semi-annual call upon him usually regarding
‘on addition to my waistline in the construction of a new
suit. My bank regarded me as one of its depositors in a
very mediocre way and that was the extent of their esteem.
The travel bureau had about reached the breaking point in
the matter of my swiping their little booklets describing
I
the virgins of Bali and the charms of Constantinople.
quantity of charts and maps of the
was the possessor of a
world and its environs for which Magellan would have traded
his best satin jerkin. Then one memorable day, I took the
bull by the horns, so to speak, and decided to go. Immedi-
ately the travel bureau began flipping pages of time tables
and rustling accomodation sheets in a most impressive man-
ner. Errand boys ran from legation to legation gathering
all manner of rubber stamps and peculiar emblems. The |
travel bureau called my house at least twice a day cajoling
me into this and consoling me out of that. Somehow the
news spread..."so and sols taking a trip around the world",
Immediately I was the vortex of any number of kibitzing
friends who were all only too glad to impart in a most im-
pressive manner just what I should and should not do. My
ction of two new suits and
tailor busily began the constru
neglected not once to mention with no little pride just
Although I haven't as yet one foot in
what they were for.


Re
ae ce ee pon done considerable thinking for myself in
wanted to go and ie T had a rather definite idea of where I
Ever that aitna ow I wanted to get there. It seems how-
I Sonlan't Sea ee, become incapable of adult thought.
o there ene ¥y want to go here, or I must be sure to
g t th ie S suitcase was so much junk, while this one was
jus e ing, I must eat so ana so and so ad 1
touch so and so, » an arentt
or...and rather a silent one at that. True, discreet and de-
an
termined enquiry would reveal the fact that I happened to be
ip, but a little mat-
ter such as me proved not the slightest hinderance to my
It was already becoming a bit of a problem for me
having been carried
away for study and contemplation by various acquaintances,
My last bulwark weakening, I was finally prevailed upon to
undergo the sundry vaccinations and inoculations. The doctor
was delighted at the prospect of downing a foreign disease
and set to work with a will sticking needles full of all man-
ner of strange fluids in my arms. He mentioned in passing
that I was the possessor of a cold, lacked Sleep, and that my
blood pressure was low....a11 news to me. Having by now re-
signed myself to my fate I had turned everything over to my
friends...they would have taken charge anyway and I théught I
might as well be graceful about it. So was I relegated to
the background, meekly going where and doing what I was
They even persuaded me to call upon a dentist,
instructed.
despite my protestations that my teeth were in unusually fine
shape. I had a foreboding and fully intended to spend a half
hour chatting pleasantly with the girl in the cigar store
‘neath the dentists! chambers,-but anticipating such a reac-
tion a friend accompanied me, "Just to see that everything
A man being brave only when he is with anoth-
went alright".
er of his species, I had no alternative but to see the
gentleman and let him poke about and jab and pick to his
heart's content. You know the rest, it wasn't but two picks
and a jab before he discovered two teeth that any law-abiding
citizen ought to have jerked upon the floor at once. -For the
first Fite “Biaée I had deeided upon this trip I summoned up
all my courage or cowardice, whichever you will, and told him
to clean my teeth and be damned..clean, nothing else, and no
monkey shines. , pap 7
Where am I now?..-aboard the motor-ship Georgic in mid-ocean


aa
sate wre a
“y |
ok.
and chugging away steadil
y for Southampton. Is a J
crossing of the Atlantic extremely Sayer requiring a hares
3
so far I could have made it in a cano
"we are having unusual weather"™, [It ea etn
derly peculiar that wherever I happen to be the localities
are always having unusual weather. The question cannot be
prevented from arising in my mind, "Am I especially
singled ioe hf the Gods to be forever encumbent in tunus-
ual weather", or is this weather business just something
Oe whe, 2etives to ‘brag.ox complain about as the ease may
bee cou traly venture to flatter myself in that the for-
And now a little counsel for who are more or ~
quainted with the ways of the Atlantic and twa te ae
are forever disturbing its tranquility. This is my second
erossing so I have rather the notion that I may view the oF
situation in somewhat of an unbiased manner; that is, ,
neither as @ seasoned traveler nor as an absolute neophyte.
Listen carefully to little Rollo because he has your inter-
ests at heart...not the steamship companies, nor the travel
bureauss. If you are contemplating a trip to the other
side, and are fortunate enough to have a companion, by all
means travel first class if your means allow. Also if
you've passed over the bounds of fifty years...and really
feel that you are fifty, travel first-class. If your an-
cestors were connected with "Palestine Incorporated", trav-
el first-class, because therein will you meet all your 7
bretheren. However, if you are traveling alone, are really
out for a good time and have a gregarious nature in the
Slightest degree...travel tourist class. There will you
have a genuinely, but not rowdy, good time with genuine
people who somehow seem to realize that there are other
people on the boat besides themselves, and are not laboring
under the impression that they have suddenly fallen heir to
a large private yacht and that anyone else who might be
walking about is merely the ghost of a former owner and can
be seen directly through without the slightest difficulty
At the moment I am traveling first class. Now
whatsoever.
I am not a particularly talkative person, but I have you my
word that I haven't imparted more than fifty words since
our sailing five days ago. These fifty have largely con-
sisted of "excuse me", "pardon me", and "sorry"...being
somewhat of a clumsy oaf. What I would do without the sol-
ace of these few conversational gems, brought upon Mais ih
erson-
by my natural clumsiness, I am at a loss to know.
ally as soon as I finish this little bit of scribbling I am
oing down and have a good long chat with a chap who is rid-
lee I might add in closing that he
ing in the Tourist class.
is a chap who knows his own mind and knows what and how he
wants things.. He's having the time of his life in the
Tourist class, as is everyone else.... he is a Count!


SOUTHAMPTON, JAN, 28 3:40P
GANNGOR (Geo. K. Gann
CHGO 100 W. Monroe St. )
Arrived here all] well, pleasant passage. Serum fine
How is business With love and affection
LONDON JAN 29
NLT
GANNGOR
CHGO
Send all cablegrams Park Lane Remain here until
Thursday Then go to Liverpool unless expedient stay
; longer Keep you advised Can I do anything for you O
in busirfess Have written fully Much hospitality
Find it cheaper to not use code on slow rate do Likewise
Love
NLT January 30, 1933.
ERNEST GANN
PARK LANE HOTEL
LONDON (ENGLAND)
Your cables received everything OK here
oC | Take your time in London and get well acquainted with
ay our principal people Two or three days in Liverpool
probably enough stop
Because of possible criticism in these disturbed times
please be careful not repeat not to give impression you x
are Mage: at Company expense stop
te = .. isis ,
Ow ae seuenaey, mndeee stand id by x


SOth January 1933
Mr. is bag Harris,
CHICAGO.
Dear Mr. Harris:
I want to thank you by letter for
your many courtesies, especially your letters and
the equipment furnished by Dr. Nordholz. Although
I have not found occasion to use it myself it came )
in handy a number of times on the boat.
If you would be interested I shall
write to you from time to time regarding various
people and conditions I meet with.
Please give my regards to Mrs.
Harris, and tell her I am sorry I am not going to
Russia.
Yours very truly,
Ernest Gann


Monday
218, Stafford House
(January 30,1933) Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, W. C. 2.
Dear Dad and Mother -—
How I can properly express extrem
gratitude for the trip upon waich 1 netion fairly yell
embarked upon, is a great problem to me. It seems so
insufficient and paltry just to say "thank you more
than I can say". You have given me many many things in
twenty-two years besides your limitless love and affec-
tion and it is very often that I stop and ask myself
whether or no I am worthy of your devotion. I have
come to the conclusion that it would be quite impossi-
ble to be properly worthy - for anyone.
Since my arrival in England I have
been treated like a king indeed. Everyone seems to go A
out of their way to be nice to me. I have been here
but three days, yet I have had only my breakfasts alone
- my next three days are filled up to the brim and if
present hospitality continues, I shall have to leave
England from sheer over-entertainment. I am beginning
to realize how very little I saw of England before and
am now firmly convinced that it is impossible to see a
country unless the people take you into their homes and
converse with you.
I am writing this sitting in my office
which is a very nice one looking directly upon the
Strand and Australia House.
Tonight I shall write you a really
good letter.
Had lunch today with Alexander Roger's
son at the Savoy - very enjoyable. Dinner again tonight
with Pleven and so on.
How do you like the way I am keeping
a real pea soup fog today
eves open so far? We have
ae’ , This trip is going to do me more
so can't see much.
good than 50 years in college.
Lots of love,
Ernest


1 A A eee ee
£18, Stafford House,
Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, W. C. 2.
20th January 1936.
Mr. Ge K. Gann:
Before I get into the maze of many impressions and ideas
that I expect to encounter on the other side, I thought
it might be expedient to report on two or three things
that have come to my attention thus far. It is quite
possible that you are already aware of these things and
are fully informed upon them. However:
1. Prominently displayed in the window of a stationery
store in New York (47th St. between 5th and 6th) I
noticed a device which, though I do not believe it could
be manufactured by the Company, at least should be of fa
some interest to the Directors. It consisted of a small
cylindrical lock that fitted in the finger-hole of the
calling dial on an automatic telephone. Its purpose was
to prevent unauthorized calls in cities where extra
charges are made for excess calls, such as New York and
Chicago.
In operation the dial could be locked with a small key,
thus preventing anyone using the telephone who did not
have the consent of the owner. The device was called
NSAV-A-CALL" and after enquiry I determined that it was
manufactured by SAV-A-CALL inc., 19 W. 44th Street, New
York City. The retail price was one dollar. I attempted
to extract as honest an opinion as possible from the
store-owner, and believe that I succeeded in doing so.
He claimed that though he had actually sold but a few of
them, a great deal of interest had been evinced by the
public in the device.
2. In the "British Trade Journal" I ran across the fol-
lowing article which I believe might be interesting
to the Directors. I am planning to investigate the ap-
paratus and conditions further upon my arrival in Switz-
erland.
"PUBLIC ADDRESS AMPLIFYING
A Remarkable Installation"
"While the design and lay-out of public-address amp-
lifying equipment is now fairly standardized, and in its
usual form can be adapted to meet the requirements of
most amplifying work, there are occasions of such a op
special type that they call for entirely novel technique
and equipment. | A particularly notable example is the


wD as
amplifying equipment recently installed in the Swiss Fed-
eral Parliament House. Designed by the Marconiphone Co.
to the order of their Swiss representatives, Telion A.G.,
this is certainly one of the most comprehensive sound-
amplifying systems installed in any part of the world.
The first problem was presented by the fact that in the
Swiss Parliament each delegate speaks from his own seat
and not from a tribune. Thus, no central installation of
microphones would have served. For the same reason, the
usual arrangement of loud-speakers diffusing at a fairly
high volume level over the area in which the delegates
sit was impracticable. After lengthy experiments a sat-
isfactory solution was reached on the following lines:
"Two hundred microphones are installed, each delegate
being provided with his own instrument mounted on the
desk immediately in front of his chair. Thus, no matter
in which part of the House a delegate speaks, his voice
is picked up by his own microphone and taken to a
special control panel. Then, no less than one hundred
loud-speakers are installed below the desks of the dele-
gates, one loud-speaker being placed between each pair
of chairs. In addition, headphones are installed for
the use of the Press, and are also available for the del-
egates.
'The microphone control panel is one of the most ingeni-
ous features of the whole installation, and since it has
to deal with inputs from the two hundred microphones,
each of which is switched separately, it has the general
appearance of a small telephone exchange. The operator
sits at this control panel, and as the various delegates
rise to address the House, their microphones are brought
into operation, since for various reasons it is not de-
sirable that all microphones should be "alive" at the
The loud-speakers are also switched in small
Same time.
groups, these switches being linked with the microphone
switches in such a manner that when any microphone is
connected the group of loud-speakers in its immediate
vicinity is switched off, thus obviating the possibility
of accoustic reaction between the various loud-speakers
and microphones."
It occurred to me that there might be some field for a
similar installation in America. At any rate I am going
to investigate it fully and will make a later report at
that time.
I was pleased to note that the "Georgic", newest of the
installation. The
White Star ships, has a complete P.A.X.
second engineer informed me that it was a great conveni-
ence, both to himself and the rest of the officers in sg ee
execution of their work. 3 ao
ay


‘ (London) Slst January 1246.
; Sir Alexander Roger,
Norfolk House,
7 Norfolk Street, W. C. 2.
4 Dear Sir Alexander, -
4 I wish to thank you again for SRE aproie
& courtesies that you have already afforded me. :
‘ SherfactsthatE ,amsnot only visitthg the
b country, but am getting some insight into its Oo
‘. business, and particularly taat in which my Father
is sae Rage ae has made my visit: rie more enioy
apie.) i ;
j I hope that I shall have the privilege of i
ors you similar courtesies on your next visit to
America.
Pisses ¢i%— mY seee LEPEE il Mee a
Yours very truly, a ae


(London) Sist January 1933.
Mr. A. F. Adams,
CHICAGO.
Dear oat as
“ah I want to thank you so much for your
bon ame telegram. It was very nice of you to
think of me, and to wish that I relieve myself of
twenty per day. By the look of things thus far ;
you were more than right oe ie tet gi vee ee 1
Britis! : e&d malice to. tchenic you again. for. your © O
peel obs. aes eure 12a and wish to say that I
have been admirably treated here in London. ~ iy 05
contact with the various offices makes me feel’ that A
I am not missing anything on my trip, seeing not a
only the country and the people, but also how they ~
handle their businesses, and-I have even been for-
tunate enough to get some insight into their oa
etki tae and ideas, ister ae seeps ao « Be
petie@ere-thev AnTs SQL Ennone 2Ga. pre aS yee .
Please give 5 best regards to Urs.
Adams. [want to thank <pom gel Ter ¥ oe ‘
Gis rites z At: ba Le Tuay 2. et 21 Pd + | a z br y gree) Lhe 3 4 a Pe aad Pet a
tenseiy tntevostinig- cay for.ae.
De Very truly yours,
hours very truly»


(NOTE; This I dia on my own hook. I got the informa-
tion on the boat from one of the American engineers
who was coming over to install the machinery.I spoke
to Mr. Pleven and he said I should write this letter,
I hope you have no objection.
Ernest.)
(London) énd February 1933.
Mr. C. Gillings,.
Automatic Electric Company ,
Melbourne House,
agra si W.C.2.
Deir ar. Gillings:
It has come to my attention that the
British Ever Ready Company, in association with the
Ever Ready Company in the States, has started renovat-
ing an old factory for their new works in this country.
Work was pier teldy as I understand it, on Monday. —
It occurred to me that this might.
iced be an opportunity for a P.A.X.system, and I
thought you might be interested in knowing so that you
can send someone to investigate. Personally I do not
Bet tere they have purchased telephone equipment as voi
ei aii want to thank you again for your
courtesy peaherdey., and assure you that it was an in-
apdaagead cat day for me. 3
, a Yours. very aM
Ae bee Fis,


we ee
4 eo
218, Stafford House,
Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, W. C. 2.
ist February 1922.
Mr. G. K. Gann,
CHICAGO.
Dear Sir,
I also spent the entire afternoon in the Overseas ex-
change, where I had the privilege of talking to South
Africa.
Mr.Gillings, of Automatie Electric Company, was kind
enough to spend the day showing me about, and also gave
me the enclosures which I am sending on to you. You
wiil note that the British telephone subscribers! list
shows a great increase from July to November. I talked
with several men in an attempt to find out why such a .
growth has taken place. As you know, the British tele-
phones are controlled by the Government, which has in-
stituted a somewhat extensive advertising campaign.
These men attribute the increase to advertising.
I am also sending you various samples of advertising
that I was able to pick up this afternoon.
Any body who says there is more glamour to the stage
than to certain telephone exchanges has certainly not
had the privileges I had today.
L am now studying a report of the General Manager of
the Liverpool factory, and also the Zurich Agreements,
and I am attempting to learn all I can while I am here.
Under separate cover when I leave London I shall send
you eet ke the various important people L have met
and talked with, and my impressions of them all. '
| hi ice to me.
Mr. Pleven has gone out of his way to be n ‘
and has rather taken over the position of a Professor
of Telephony.
j rable, be-
not worry about what you mentioned in your cable,
eas I neve taken special pains to make that understood.
Mother.
one 8 Your son
Ernest


i.
-
“18, Stafford House,
Norfolk Street,Strand,
London, W.C.2,.
end February 1933.
Mr. G. K. Gann,
CHICAGO,
Dear Sir,
Due to a number of reasons that are too numero =
tion, one being that my interest in the Bustnoce et
day by day, I have somewhat re-arranged my schedule, and
I thought it best that you have a copy of it. Of course
this is not iron-clad, but as far as I can determine now
t should be all means go to each of these places, not
only to see the country, but for business reasons.
I am leaving tomorrow afternoon to drive to Liverpool,
trying to see some of the English countryside on the Way.
Commencing Monday morning I shall spend two days looking
over the factories, then back to Lond, then to Paris,
Brussels, Antwerp, Berlin, Vienna, Zurich, Venice, Milan,
Genoa and Lisbon, in the order mentioned.
I realize that this is somewhat in the manner of retrac-
ing my. steps, but so far as I can see now it is the only
possible way for me to see things I feel I should. From
Lisbon I am planning to meet Captain Mifsud in Fez. From
there I shall continue on to Suez, and so forth,
The money.is holding out fairly well thus far, and I
hope I shall be able to make the trip on the amount I
However, there are some things I feel I should see,
have.
and.I am. staying in London longer than I planned only be-
cause I feel that I am learning a great deal.
Please give my love to Mother, and do not feel that I am
i found
not writing you as often as I can, because I have
it impossible to see London, learn something of the busi-
ness, sleep, and write long letters, at the same time.
Love,
Ernest
Aa


#18, Stafford House,
Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, W. C. 2.
8th February 1933.
Mr. G. 1 Gann,
CHICAGO,
Dear Father,
I have just had a talk with Mr. Pleven, and he has gone to
gg some lengths to impress on me the fact that I must see
& Central Burope, i.e., Poland etc. He remarked that if I
3 did not see these countries, and this particular section
of Europe, it would be the same as if he were to go to the
_ a Hes States and see Delaware, and then say that he kmew
4 erica.
; | Consequently I have revised my schedule again. Roughly it
; 7 is: London to Paris, to Lisbon, to Africa, to Italy, to ”
Eg Switzerland, to Antwerp, to Berlin, to Warsaw, through Po-
land to Budapest and Vienna, to Trieste or Constantinople
and thence through the Suez. This is the itinerary that
Mr. Pleven has suggested and I am sure that with his know-
ledge of Europe it is the best course to follow.
I am leaving tomorrow morning for Paris, and I believe
that you had better address me for the next three weeks _
eare of the American Express, Lisbon. |.
+
7
3 Mr. Pleven has been extremely nice to me in so many ways
that I do not know properly how to thank him. He has made
interesting and as pleasant
eee er! Peat
we him 34 oe
ee vj
4
4
w
eg
heck
Fe
ime 6 © Soil
ee Ate, ‘ee
write you a per-
Mratedee eine.


Donington House
Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, W. C, &.
8th February, 1933.
tg ee Esq.,
ssociated Telephone & Telegr
100 West Monroe Street, aia
CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Gann,
D { thank you for your letter of the 14th January
g introducing your son, whom we have had much pleasure
in meeting. He is leaving to-morrow for Portugal
and. the rest of his. tour, and has been furnished with
a letter-of introduction to Colonel Pope, the General
Manager. I am sure he will find his visit to that
country an interesting one. 4 ayia
Naturally Ernest has been very busy seeing all
there is, to be seen in the short. time at his disposal
in England. I was hoping that I should have seen ©
more of him, but his time has not permitted it, as I
should have liked to have taken him about and shown
him. some of the, sights of London and the neighbouring
country. — A .
Ours very. sincerely.
It has been a very great pleasure to meet your
son who possesses such an attractive personality, and
I hope we shail have the pleasure of seeing him again
at some future date. Esnect KR. Gebh
With kind personal regards,
Yours sincerely,
_#, S. Bennett


(London)
9th February 19332.
Mr. G. W. Moore,
Lynwood,
Raleigh Close,
Hendon, N.W.4.
My dear Mr. Moore:
I am extremely sorry I was unable to meet you during
my stay in London, My Father told me a great deal
about you, and I feel that I have missed a very in-
portant and pleasant part of my visit in not making
your acquaintance.
I was extrmely sorry to hear of your illness, and I
hope that it will not be of very long duration.
Please accept my very best wishes, and I hope that
on my next visit to London I shall have the pleasure
of meeting and talking with you. =
Yours very sincerely,
Ernest K. Gann


40 gts Die
as “ls
ephonts advertising 1s attempted in the United States, I
was particularly interested in seeing what steps had been
taken in London. I found that since last May the British
Post Office has instituted an extensive advertising cam-
paign, and I also have found in looking over the charts,
that the number of subscribers in England has made consid-
oe erable progress since this programme was begun. In talk-
as ae ing with several of the men in the business, I learned it
i eee that they all attributed this remarkable gain, as this
critical time, to the advertising programme,
Ate Realizing that the ratio of telephones in Ameri-
bite ca is five to one, while Great Britain is only fifteen to
“ ; one, I nevertheless do not see how this ratio could effect
“t such a splendid gain between the short period of June and
November, during which an almost corresponding loss has
bs occurred in the U. S. A.
?
As mentioned-in.a previous letter, I have sent
4 : copies of what advertising samples I was able tto obtain.
The more I associate with people on this side of
the Atlantic, the more I am impressed with their extreme
interest in political and international affairs. There
seems to be none of the aloofness nor the unfamiliarity
of the average American, with political and international
affairs all over the world, and particularly, people are
intensely interested in Hitler's election and conditions
in Germany at this time.


new
A new system
Mig has recently been designed, and is now to be put in opera-
tion, for Trafalgar Square. These stop signs have made con-
siderable progress here and I understand they have orders
and potentialities for a great many more, both in England
and in surrounding countries.
I understand that in England only two million homes 0
out of twelve million are electrically equipped. A new grid
system has recently been put in operation throughout North-
ern England, and undoubtedly as a result of this many homes
will put in electricity. The opportunities to manufacture
and sell electrical equipment in conjunction with this new
use of electricity seem to be very promising.
I noticed particularly in going through the Liverpool
factories the make-up of the tanks where the dipping takes
place. In Chicago these tanks are made of wood and the ap-
pearance not only is untidy, but I understand is not as ef-
ficient as the Liverpool ones. There they have enamel
around the rim of all dipping tanks.
I also noticed that Liverpool had thirty people at
work assembling the telephone instrument itself, whereas
Chicago during my last visit had one.
I was interested to note in the Victor Works that
during the last year they had sold 2,000 stoves and 42,000


electric irons.
Wit
h the variety of things manufactured at the Liver-
pool factories it seems to me that they have much more
chance Of covering losses than if they concentrated on one
or two products. As you know, I talked this ever with you
in Chicago and I was interested to know that the by-products
have been successful.
I do not think that there is any question but that
many of the impressions that I have herein noted, and the
deductions, are not absolutely correct, it being impossible
to make them so on such a short visit. However, I submit
this report more to show you the interest I am taking and
the things I am seeing rather than with the idea that you
will learn anything from them that you are not already
aware of.
ERNEST K. GANN


Sir Alexander Roger Norfolk Ho
SP eR ore Ww ony Om ae oe use
Victoria Embankment,
London, W. C. 2.
AR/OH
/ 10th February, 1933.
G. K. Gann Esq.,
Theodore Gary and Company
100, West Monroe Street, -
CHICAGO,
Dear Mr. Gann,
I. think you will like to know that your son, Ernest,
left for Paris by aeroplane yesterday in continuation of
his journey...
He met most of the principal officials of the Companies
here and at Liverpool, and I think he gathered some useful
experience and information.
I may say that he made a very good impression on us all
and we were glad to do what we could for hin.
I have arranged a number of letters of introduction for
him for the various countries which he is visiting, and I
hope thereby it will contribute to make the rest of his
journey pleasant and profitable.
With kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
ALEX. ROGER


Norfolk House,
Victoria Embankment ,
London, W. Oy Bie
10th February 1933.
Dear Mr. Gann,
I am pleased to acknowledge receipt of your letter of
the 14th ult., introducing your son, Ernest, but regret
that due to temporary indisposition I was unable to meet
him. My assistants, however, arranged for a two days?
visit to Liverpool Factory which, no doubt, Ernest has
told you about.
From all accounts he has made quite a good impression
here and judging from the very nice note I received from
him, he evidently fully appreciates the character of his
welcome.
Rest assured that I shall personally be pleased to do
anything possible to facilitate his activities should he
again pay London a visit on his return from the Continent.
With best wishes,
Yours very Sincerely,
G. W. MOORE
G.K. Gann, Esq.,
100, West Monroe Street,
Chicago, U. S. A.


CABLE - PARIS FEB. 11.
LCD GANNGOR (Geo. K. Gann
CHGO 100 West Monroe St.)
Arrived all well Wext Lisbon Adéress care Royhot Paris y
Love
Chicago
WLT February 11, 1933.
Ernest Gann,
Royhot
Paris (France)
First letter and pictures received today and greatly
enjoyed Write in a much detail as you ean stop
Assume you have changed route but dont miss Berlin. Stop u
Pictures good but maybe you should have small movie
Kastman has good store Paris stop
All weil mail sent NYK Naples Love
GANNGOR
CABLE VIA DIRECT SPANISH - MADRID Feb. 16
GANNGOR CHGO }
Madrid Well Monday Lisbon Oporto Communicate O
Williams London Love
Chicago,
os February 16,1933.
e. NLT
3 GERALSTAF (lir, G. R. Williams, Secretary,
LONDON (ENGLAND) Theodore Gary and Company London)
Advise Ernest be sure visit Grabe SandH Berlin before leav- |
ing Europe stop
Received cable from Madrid today saying he will be Lisbon
Oporto Monday and to communicate via you
GANNGOR


t
a
£12 Blvd. Raspail ;
Paris.
Feb. 11, 1923.
ue
My Dear Fond Parents: ma
Two | io
weeks have rolled around since I have been able } a.
Retcttcemess. oS Ae red machine and pound out a decent
2 ° Wo weeks in which much has happened, many
amazing change. In the first place, modern ;
in and taken an executive position in all ne ee ee
When I say modernism I do not «mean the rather bastard form |
that exists in the States, but. a flamboyant, announcement- y!
like modernism, that makes its presence felt in the architec-
ture, the clothes, the music, in everything. Even the vener-
able old taxies that used to provide Americans with such :
cause for concern and opportunities for jocous remarks have ——~ _
disappeared. No longer does one ascend: into a vehicle that Ee E
one would have sworn carried Richard of Anjou to his wedding
ee-einstead the Citroen Company have provided modern and con-
paritively quiet transportation in taxies quite similar to
those that smash each other about in our larger cities. Mod-
ernism has even taken hold in England, to its grief because
the English seem uncapable of developing modernism in any
sensible artistic manner. I have been unwilling witness to
some of the most unattractive, repulsive, unpleasant examp-
les of modernism in England that it has ever been my privil-
ege to encounter! . France, on the other hand, has gone in a
for it in a more conservative and tolerable manner. .
Due to my good fortune in making the acquaintance
of a Russian boy who lives in Paris, on the boat, I was able
‘to come here and instead of paying five dollars a day at
some expensive hotel and seeing nothing Paris but the prec
n yfor
de Elysees, I am staying at the same hotel he lives inf
the grand sum of one dollar and eighty cents a day. This to-
tal dncludes a nice bath, W.C. and another curious instrument
which I do not deem wise to mention here. The hotel is over
He has been good
on the left bank and is very nice indeed.
enough to take me around to meet his friends and I have been
on sevéral parties with them. Thus I have access to French
homes that I could not possibly have otherwise. Il spend
about four hours a day sitting in my favorite cafe...what
one does I do not know...it is Paris, and one just sits and
meditates and views with suspicion, disapproval, and acclain,
the passing world.


Paris is & b
ally beautiful Cautiful city, ana i
their troubles ope « They know how to ne Rent Senet rags
night you will Seewtne: sun goes down. In the Saree week
and the candlestic, e Same people, the butcher the baker
discussing the pr rmaker, having their nightly coffee and.
Not in the night-elgee Of the day and the joys of the d
E4t-clubs; those are reserved fon AReehe an site
because love hurts no-one. I
as yet I have not seen anyone,
evinced the slightest evidence of being drunk. Ntest ce pas?
I wish to make a Little dissertation here because
every day it is being impressed upon me more and more. To
get along socially, to transact business,
Europe, whether you are in France or not it is necessary to
speak French. It is useless without a proper knowledge of ©
this language. Most Europeans speak one language or two be-
sides their own...invariably one of these is French. As a
result if one can speak it one can engage in an intelligent
conversation with almost anyone on the Continent. It is a
great pity that Americans are not forced to learn more than
the one language...personally I refuse to be one of them.
At present I speak what might be called a "sufficient Span-
ish",...it is enough to get along. I am determined in this,
however. The moment I arrive home I am going to commence
taking the French language and I am going to persist in it
until I can speak it as fluently as anyone. I have made a
water with Mr. Pleven that the next time he sees me I shall
That will give me a
speak to him in French and do so well.
knowledge of three languages...enough to get me along any-
where.
I hope that the various letters and reports that I
have been sending back to you have met with your approval.
For some reason or other I have received practically no
mail from you. From all I know of home I might already be
in the jungles of Sumatra. I am so burdened down with let-
ters of introduction that it is all I can do to move from
place to place. I have purchased a little Victrola which
serves me well in that it bucks me up when I am alone in a
cA
.
ey
.
to do anything in


is ever an
1d be unpleasant cond yi
Sete can Beek wee how @ couple of good Be Sera h
one up, peppy French rec-~
I think th
Pl at
e and that the people there
ricans. In other countries
will take me longer. Now I have
begun on France and do not intend to leave it until I have
some clear conception of the conditions and the methods
here.
So, does life roll on...in a few minutes I must
go out to Le Dome, the cynosure of all Montparnasse, for
our minute little coffee and thence to Le Restaurant St.
Benedi, a small place around the corner that ean serve up
the most amazingly tasty "Roisson" for eight francs that
you have ever saluted as it passed your thorax. Accompan—
ied by a small glass of Vin Rouge Ordinaire, I have a
hearty dinner for forty cents, the consumption of which
takes anywhere from one to three hours...one does not
hurry in Paris.... life is too short.
Au Revoir,
Ernest.
I believe you had better write me care of American Express
Lisbon.


CABLE - LONDON FEB, 37
NLT GANNGOR - CHGo
Am advising Ernest contents your cable stop
He is keeping me Closely in touch with his movements
WILLIAMS - LONDGARY
Chicago,
February 21, 1933
ERNEST GANN
Care AMFRICAN EXPRESS
LISBON (PORTUGAL)
Letters advising route change rec@ived stop
Think change wise but anticipate more time and money
required Cable when and where needed and will forward 0
reasonable additional sum through Londgary Love
GANNGOR


‘of an albatross in full flight as they reel down the nar-
row streets sans brakes, sans lights, sans sundry nuts
and character.
one encounters beggary-.
Off the coast of W
es
Africa. Feb. 25, 198%
Dear Mother and Dad:
that its Capital 4
smells known Sa city Possessing n
pow Webs ts brn 4 man, but it outdoes rains Hee a be
of Madrid live in such som" Some of the good citizens
they live and squalo
y at all. Here dogs lead POLE case Pin! Lema
>
filthy looking tin cans, mail i |
day, and the Gative ania popuistion seems te'om"seeet —V—|
fe) € kind of uniform. T ;
ment looks like Coxey's army and a mee ees
ances I am sure would fight equally as well as they drill
After watching them maneuver for ten minutes I was con- ;
vinced that one good marine could put to rout the entire
Spanish army. Granted that in London there have been no
new taxies launched since before the great war (if there
has, no notice has been issued); the venerable old veh-
icles at least chug along in a highly efficient manner...
not so, Spain. None of the taxies in Madrid can lay
Claim to more than five years, yet rest assured that the
next one you venture into will be in a most wretched
state of repair. ,In view of the fact that many of the
streets of Madrid are paved with cobbles that would jolt
the life out of anything but an army tank, it is no wonder
that the fenders of the average taxi flap like the wings
and bolts and a proper regard for the value of human life.
To me these taxies are a true key to Spanish temperament
Cabs in England shine and function effici-
Cabs in Spain neither
ently...so do the Engliah people.
could nor for that matter have the slightest desire to
fulfill their alloted task in the proper manner. if they
‘enough, why bother with
ean be set in motion at all it is
-superlatives...Spanish attitude, Spanish character.
: ther south one travels on the Continent the more
St rey It is seldom that one is approached
2 Heda;
b


But the peculiar ence in France,
S who thr
: become an inst ough centurie
x man who steps piped. One never ehootthe exes: Abpirse4
.” That "Brother o ttively to your side and Scier uouee et
“ok" does not ekinesene rare e a dime for a cup of corres,”
e. some way to manage food and ied tig a tec Er eee
ah Odging without soliciting. One
, -
5 8
Fieg
Gs ,
’ “7 ad
hard heart indeed that can resist thiomi'e tenes Data aes .
@ «&
ald
ra,
cy 253 »
is <i
a | If Spanish women do not learn to r
SS : : esist giving birth -
bies every nine months, the entire country is going eo tbe
baat
a
se
~
Py overrun with people in another fift
ny where, in the streets, in windows, iif Waedbe potas tees
es parks, markets, Saloons, trees, fences, underfoot thous- - &
BA ands upon thousands of screaming, yelling, roaring whoop- —\/ Pe
i ; ing, squealing, whining, grunting, cCaterwauling, bellowing oon f]
wae. children. The clamour and hue and cry in some streets is ,
2 little short of deafening. There are red-heads, white
4 heads, black heads, yellow heads, brown heads, all of them
4 £3 violently in need of a good bath. Unlike Ameriean children
¥ they are left to shift for themselves, and let me assure
_ you that most of them seem highly capable of doing so.
I have spoken of the hubbub one finds in the average street.
But you should go to an open market! The stréets with all
their howling are as a Sunday evening in a small mid-west-
ern village compared with these Tattersals. Stretching for
perhaps two or three blocks over the cobbles, sit and stand
perhaps a thousand vendors of everything from yo-yo's to
second hand slightly rusted hairpins. All of them, and
some of them are possessed of voices that would put the Eu~
ropa's fog horn to shame, are hollering at the top of their
lungs. Now let's take a bit of cotton, plug up our ears,
_ and walk a little way amongst this seething mass of scream-
ing humanity and see what they have to offer. Here's a ~
half-dozen well lynched chickens looking mighty scrawny and
swaying slightly to and fro in the breeze. Here sits a
gentleman who has laid out for your perusal an unsurpassed
collection of keys, some very rusty and some not so rusty.
There stands a portly madonna and ehild who screams the mer-
its of about a thousand live crabs. It would be useless to
tay ig hes “ena her crabs shout their own merits via the
nostril route. Here sits a magician of sorts who, for half
a peseta will perform for you a trick that has ped the
~ erowned heads of the Orient. The variety of oF Firs s
“equalled only by the variety of merchandise for sale.
By virtue of a train that takes its own sweet time, eighteen


‘4 eo ye ee ee ;
SE Pepe tit ian ae TE he es et, oe ria ;
be ahi a ee isa : “ Te. ee Sr te oa ie ae
> ay a el S ? ae, , ye oe . er eg
ee se a erie CR Bee Be LF: oF kee fe Pe
aa ae
_ at everything new. The Spanish are
Be
ny Spain" and equally idealic Pp
° ortugal are in Fs
ing old man winter, Of course, the weather mas arpane tae
gling against both wind and tide The Portuguese, n i
° Of
used to seeing a smokestack without a plume ae black Siok an
will damn well provide one. Somehow you don't ming this in
the Portuguese.
etent. All Portuguese from the fish
neere effort to under-
the Spanish do not make any
For a slight insight into the Portuguese character, take
out a camera on one of the little side streets of Lisbon,
Direetiy you will be surrounded by a gaping group of all
ages. They will not make themselves objectionable and this
is not the first camera they have ever seen, Silently, pos-
itively enrapt in curiosity they will watch you manipulate
the thing... the more complicated its operation the better.
They have an intense desire to see how this particular cam-
era is operated. When you have done they will smile slightly
and turn away..their curiosity satisfied.
The city of Lisbon is built upon a number of steep hills.
Its harbor, one of the most colerful in the world, has
Changed but little since the day Vasco Da Gama set sail on
his record-breaking voyage. The Phenician and Moorish in-
fluences are evident everywhere. The steep little streets
have numerous houses that only a Moor could have conceived.
The harbor is filled with lighters making leeway equalled
only by their headway of the old Phenician hull design and
using the same sailing rig John the Baptist did....that is
if John ever used one.


OBSERVATIONS
on the
ANGLO-PORTUGUESE TELEPHONE COMPANY
February, 19343.
Ernest Gann.


ANGLO~PoRTUGUESE TELEPHONE COMPANY
I met the following important peoples
pes rsh.
Mr Pope, Chief Executive Officer, Lison and Oporto
Mr. Grant, Lisbon Manager,
I visited the following places of interest;
Central Exchange
Trindade Exchange
<s
Norte Exchange Bel
Belem Exchange
All central offices
The new "Cabinet Publica" located on the main plaza, Lisbon.
GENERAL:
Commercial:
From what I could gather during my five day stay in
Lisbon the commercial department seemed to be very well hand-
led and functioning with a fairly good degree of efficiency.
There are, however, some local problems that should be looked
into, and in my opinion, changed. In the first place each
commercial 5 iat peas ts is, accounting, collection, etc.,
are employing enough people to handle their one or two busy
days of the month. Each department working separately, as is
the case, the employees of each department find themselves
with very little to do after their particular busy day is fin-
ished. The work then goes on to the next department who be-
come furiously busy for two days, and the, then, the work
done, lapse ainto another twenty-eight days of comparative use-
lessness. The reasons for this condition, are, as I see it,


hve
two. Namely:
a. ‘The girls and the men in each department know only how to
do their particular job in their owm department, and the aver-
age have no conception as to what happens to the work once it
leaves then.
g. The girls and men in these departments consist mainly of
2 very low type of Portuguese (about one step above a peasant).
The girls earn so little that they are forced to do less sav-
ory things than count slips at night. The men are paid so p
little that as a class they are incapable of handling more
work than they actually do.
From my observations, I would recommend that the de-
partments. do not work so independently of each other. This
could best be brougnt about by hiring a higher type of Portu-
guese for the various departments. Fewer of them would be re-
quired and they could carry the commercial work right through
the various phases which would do away with the obvious waste
of each department being busy but two days in the month.
COLLECTION SYSTEM:
The company uses a pecurliar collection system which
Three separate bills are sent
(1) Rental fee,(2) excess calls,
I ean see no justification for.
to the: subscriber each months
and (3) toll charges. This system often makes it necessary
for the subscriber to call at the office three different times
each month. Not only is this a great inconvenience to the sub-
seriber but the amount of work entailed in sending out the
three separate bills is naturally a great deal more than if


meeting place of lovers
Be
all charges were
put on the same bill. As it is necessary
to watch public relations much more closely in Portugal
than in America, I think some Change should be made. The
fact that the three Separate bills are received by the sub-
seriber often on a different day also has a tendency to
make him feel he is being overcharged, and I assure you
that the fact that the telephone company is a public utili-
ty has not the slightest weight in convincing the average
Portuguese that he is not being robbed in a wholesale man- ()
ner.
ADVERTISING:
A considerable amount of advertising is carried on
in Portugal with remarkable effect. It being practically a
virgin country, telephonically speaking, advertising is one
of the strongest factors in obtaining new subscribers. En-
closed will be found samples of the company's literature. In
addition a great deal of advertising is done in the newspa-~
pers, and by means of public displays. It is interesting to
note that the "Cabinets Publica", a corner store occupied by
the pomp aay situated on what amount s to the Times Square of
Lisbon, has made a profit, after all installation costs,
rents, etc., have been paid for, of over a thousand pounds.
The "store" consists of over twenty pay-stations (booths)
with a uniformed a thentemt and two manual operators. The
window displays. containing various propaganda on the tele-
phone, are changed periodically. The spot seems to have
caught the public fancy and is used for everything from a
to a convenient place to talk busi-


4. 5"
nesse
I sat in
the place for over an hour one afternoon
d at no
an time were there more than two of the twenty
pooths empty.
Several times they were all full and five
or six people would be Standing in line, The -prominence
of the place may be Judged from the fact. that it was the
first thing I saw on my arrival in Lisbon. Plans are now
being laid for the installation of a similar "store™ in
Oporto.
TECHNICAL: U
I had a long talk with Mr. Pope regarding the in-
stallation of automatic equipment in Portugal. He:was
definitely against stel installation for the following
reasons:
1. Operators are paid four pounds ($13.60) per month
in Portugal.
ee. The present rate of increase in subscribers, instal-
ling automatic equipment at the same time is 8%.
The cost of operating this equipment (automatic)
under the conditions in Portugal is so much more
than manual that Mr. Pope feels he could bring his
rate of subscriber increase to 15% if he could use
manual equipment exclusively and thereby reduce his
rates. Granting that the manufacture and sale to
the Portuguese Company helps the Liverpool factory
at present, and thereby the Group as a whole, I can-
not help but wonder what the situation will be when
Portugal has absorbed all the automatic equipment
it can. As far as I can see the only relief then
will be to cut the rates...an impossibility with
automatic equipment.
I think it might be interesting to note here that
the average wage of the employees of the Portugues Tele-
phone Company, with the exception of the senior staff, is
approximately $170.00 per annum.
PROSPECTS FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT:
Prospects for future development in Portugal, lay


5e
mainly along two lines: ext
‘ iz sequent growth of ccboeet a iste toe deed
Portuguese Company controls Lisbon and Oporto boiled
tory Surrounding them for an average radius of fifteen
miles. These are the two principal cities of Portugal,
Oporto being about half the size of Lisbon. The Post Of-
fice controls the rest of the telephone service in Portu-
gal and is doing a very poor job of it. The service is 0
abominable and they lose money annually. Mr. Pope feels -:
that the prospects for the company taking over the whole
country are excellent and is continuously negotiating
with the Government towards this end. He mentioned that
: he already has two of the seven members of the Presi-
dent's Cabinet on his side. However, negotiating with
§ Portuguese is an exceedingly slow business and under no
conditions should anyone try to hurry him in this respect.
For a favorable concession the Portuguese must feel that
it is their idea to turn over the control to the Group,
and not someone else's idea. Knowing Pope's enthusiasm
as I do, I am sure he will leave no stone unturned for the
furtherence of such a concession.
Hand set telephones are not yet in use in Portugal.
In many places the old magneto type is still doing "serv-
The hand sets should go well there but just at
pany is encountering difficulty in getting
truments.
ice",
present the com
sion to make an ex ete charge for these ins
anticipating obtaining such permission in the
In connection with using hand sets
permis
rouge are
near future however.
ah %


éy
fn Portugal I made a br
Lef in
ae vestigation into the shipping
S and have found that hand sets could be
5 Els
shipped 1rom'the Chicago factory almest as cheaply as from
ae °
Liverpool Considering that the Liverpool factory is much
pusier than the Chicago factory, I think it might be a
good idea to investigate using American instruments, when
the time comes, in Portugal; thereby giving the Chicago
factory something to do,
Regarding Real-Phones, I do not see how there could
be any great market for them in this country. However, it
would not hurt to send out a few pair and watch results.
The ATM should be instructed at once to get in
touch with the powers that be in the city of ii shen sau ar-
The City
range for a demonstration of their stop-signs.
I
of Lisbon should be literally a "stop-sign paradise",
saw nothing of this nature in use in the entire city and I
assure you that the need is grave.
There are two classes of people in Lisbon and Oporto
and Portugal generally. These are the wealthier class,
consisting mainly of Portuguese in the wine, cork and allied :
trades; and the low-class Portuguese who does anything from
live with twenty of his kind on a fifty-foot fishing boat,
to drive a lumbering pair of oxen pefore a great two-
There exists no
wheeled cart loaded with fish or cork.
Therefore, telephonic-
definite bourgeois in this country.
we can only consider and cater to the
ally speaking,
The poorer clases exist for an entire
Nupper crust".
hat their telephone bill would be for a similar
month on W


' 7
th
5 Ried So th ;
we le ardly think they may be regarded as likely
ee prospects.
“Naga SPECIAL:
a py. Hee anou Ae looking for young men of marked ex-
° ecutive material, they have one whose existance is unknown
in America. He has been a Student of the Group for four ’
years and has just finished a year with the Anglo-Portu- 0
guese Company. He is a public school man and an Oxford
graduate. It goes without Saying that he is a gentleman.
* : He is keenly interested in the Group, and especially in
getting to America and studying the methods there. Were I
doy commissioned to find a young man for executive training,
he is most certainly the type I would look for. His name
is Mr. A. G. Martin, and is at present on his way to re-
port for further instructions in London.


Expenditures so far:
American Express Cheeks < iw ean
$500.00
Drawings on Letter of Credit:
er
Feb. 9, London. .......$2
Feb, 7.5, Pais: ic a meno oe
Feb. LG, Madrid. +. <seeelOOLOO
Feb. 20, Lisbon........100.00
Cash on hand at present, Feb. 27, - $35.00
Total days since leaving Chicago: 43
Total amount expended: 4885.00
Average per day: Approx. $20.00. (Tell Mr. Adams THAT!)
The above, of course, includes all travel expenses in- .
cluding boats, trains, visas, and so forth. The only ex-
pense that is not included is the Atlantic passage.
Gt¥G 5
At * We Gao 4 > ie e
pugas thet.deett possipses
p that ¥ou ara


ig
CERTIFICATE OF HEALTH anp GENERAL CONDITION OF VOYAGEE
February 28th, 1933.
Dear Mother and Dad:
Because I have already written you a long letter
with just about everything there is to say, I am just
going to drop you a little note along with these pict-
ures.
Ll am getting along fine in my wanderings, am
learning more than ten years in school would teach me,
and also am learning to appreciate America like I never
did before. There is now no question in my mind but
what it is the most wonderful and beautiful country in
the world, I don't care from what angle you consider it.
Just tell any of your friends for me that if they begin
sighing around about how they would like to get to
Africa or Spain or some such place. I lay you ten to
one that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred they have
never been to the place they want to go so badly.
My health is all that anyone could ask for and my
spirits are getting along under the strain of missing a
good steak and french-fries as pest they can. I am not
especially lonesome but by God I would like to sink ny
teeth into a good American steak. However, go East young
man, go East. I wish that I could hear from you more
often than I do, but I guess that isn't possible.
Lots of love and remember that you are always in
my thoughts wherever I might be.
Adios,
Ernest.


WO LAS PALMAS MARCH 3
WLT
GANNGOR
CHGO
Arrive Casablanca day you get this All well, health 4
money interest ~~ No wora from you for ages expect
arrive Antwerp April first Love
Chicago,
March 6, 1933.
NLT | ‘
-GERALSTAFF ©
LONDON (ENGLAND)
’ ra a . y . - et bs ia
a F { ef) § ¥f?
ot BS ‘, SP Ve dS ee F Dh Vind Rak. Tie
If you hear that Ernest has difficulty securing funds
on American letter credit please advance him any
onable sum and cable me amount later Sat ara
. ee ie & oa
= "Tl ttie ele ~s et
nets in Casablanca today and has not reported any
difficulty If you have his TTS please wire him
accordingly ag


ay, \®
CABLE - LONDON MAR, 9 fi
NLT GANNGOR Wig
CHGO i |
14,
We
vy E, Referring your cable to G : |
one hundred pounds to Ernest stop have telegraphed today i a
4 Have telegraphed him it would be sill
= Oe -, F F to
ea Drecinheg iat Re should net ake any Uecte tr tenee
eat Oo 2 :
what to doo UY tce and suggest you telegraph him direct
4 PLEVRENE \e
. (Mr. Rene Pleven) We
ea, sa ha EN
Chicago,
“ oe March 10, 1933.
Ys a ERNEST GANN
10,7 GRAND HOTEL
ei. FEZ, MOROCCO
en Pleven cables you uncertain relative continuation trip
ar stop | (
ITD)
a a You must continue repeat continue tour as originally
| planned as financial difficulties here shortly over
Cable receipt
Chicago,
March 10, 1936.
NLT
PLEVRENE |
LONDON (ENGLAND)
Greatly appreciate your attention to Ernest stop
Have cabled him Fez to continue tour as planned and no }
reason for any change stop
lease also cable him
STAG Ae baer aa I say for him to
For fear my
you have communicated with me
continue as originally planned


CABLE ~ FEZ (MOROCCO) yar. 11
LCD GANNGOR
CHGO
Reason uncertain extreme isolation newspapers unreliable U
Love you mother


 @
FEZ, MOROCCO,
MAR. 10, 1933,
REPORT TO MR. E. C. BLOMEYER py MR. ERNEST GANW
SUBJECT: OULED-NaTL GIRLS
am able to at last re ;
izing your extreme inbareee: Sindy -Seieats nee een ce
n e ed-Na i =
in the Ouled-Nail girl, I immediately set to work apeeer
the subject as soon as I set foot upon the shores of Mior-
occo.e I enquired here and T enguired there, but to my ava
astonishment no-one had ever heard of an Ouled-Nail pint
nor furthermore, seemed to think that there was littie
chance of my ever uncovering one. (The word uncovering
is used strictly in the archeological sense.) Realizing
how disappointed you would be if you did not receive some
information upon the subject, I persevered and refused
to be discouraged. Then one day I got to Chatting with
an Englishman over a glass of beer in the local Casa-
Blanca dispensary. Ritual-like, I put to him my eternal
question, "What is, and where is, a Quled-Nail girl?".
Now this chap turned out to be the manager of the local
Vacuum Oil branch. He denied ever having Seen one but
did admit that he had heard of them. He advised that I
drop around to his office where resided a native clerk
who knew where to find them if anybody in Morocco did.
We repaired to his office after doing away with another
beer.
Well, the clerk didn't know but he had a friend whom he
thought might be able to give us some information. Plac-
ing a good Antwerp instrument to his ear he requested a
number and in the course of fifteen or twenty minutes the
wonder of the modern telephone was demonstrated to us, i.
e., strangely enough, he got it. He conversed with the
unseen party for some time during which I heard the words
Ouled-Nail filles. I knew he was on the subject at any
rate. I watched his face anxiously for the first sign of
success. The conversation ceased for a moment and the
clerk turned to me and said that his friend was enquiring
of a friend of another friend of his, if he knew anything
about the subject at hand. I lit a cigarette, spat out
hind pocket to see if my letter
the window, and felt my Happily, it was. I doubted
. it was still there.
eon broach eaten wali girl danced purely for the sheer
joy of dancing.
Now the Antwerp instrument is of much
aS
?
eS —
SSR aS
—


aig be
De
GO
lighter construction th
an the Cc -
foo, a5 this obligine clesk ‘wad tenf9* and, 8, £000 thing |
B ar
lit up. Ah yes, he did lmow) qoe2ms the clerk?s face
a bit of paper, bia Owl He wrote someth
m Teer? the other en agit mething down on
nung up. I would go to this ad he line Adieu, and
that night, enquire of
Bl Amrini, Something HEAT baer h on of Abderrahman
that and not have somethin
LOU h
returned to my hotel, rénaue eek
Herald, and waited, At the ninth
rang me up.’ I went downstairs immediately and found our
gers and off we went. Three miles o
e ut of the t
oA ies Mie hea ne @ group of small bleached o1astes ee
u gs at stood out’ like gravestones in the moonlight.
We drove up before a sma
flickering light of a candle Sage cegbaipecncere cadet
swarthy faces that passed it. Attended only by a gigantic
woman, her huge body swathed in a heavy burnoose, we were
led down a dark passageway and eventually came out into a
small room about half again as big as the lavatory at 100
.» Monroe. We seated ourselves upon the floor- cross-
legged, and waited in dumb wonder at the next event. The
huge woman stood, arms folded, watching over us like a far-
mer does two pigs he is seriously thinking of taking to
market. Not a word was spoken. I "“ahemmed"™ a few times
in fast-dying hope that we all might become more chummy ,
but it didn't seem to break the ice a particle. The woman
continued to regard us as one of the rather lower forms of
existing amibi and I was beginning to think that maybe she
wasn't so far wrong at that. The party so far had all the
earmarkings of a good wake, as far as I was concerned.
What the Englishman thought I ean't imagine, but then they
don't think overmueh anyway. The single candle sputtered
a time or two either in anticipation or disgust, Allah
alone knew,
Soon a man entered. The man had a long beard. The
man had bad teeth and dirty bare feet. From the folds of
his burnoose he solemnly withdrew a violin, price l
should judge on rumination, about two dollars. I could
see we were going to have to pay the piper in sooth. He
sat down with the greatest deliberation and began to tune
his instrument with meticulous care. I hate violins. 1
have always hated violins. Since first my loving father
wnseuee st around the State Capitol in Lincoln, Nebraska,
4n a perambulator built for two,
love to break Vv.
I have hated violins. I
iolins, preferably over its players head.
. o*
ond


iS pg heed
“ uf
However, I was certainly, not
=—2& goin
sooty beloved tony Pate with anything ae iis forbidding
saad Lished Late ee Fike alone his obvi- |
in a very ‘aberoular meniee’ Settstection, he chueiel sce, |
is he made noises on two Kak Gena commenced to play....that
‘
the other two were spares in eo<otrimgs- I presumed that Vt
|
two steaming glasses of rath
wished the blessings of AGU sheen Ipecr
everyone present, (even that or the violinist) and took a
sip. Things were commencing to pick up. The tea was ex- \
cellent. of took another Sip.and wondered how they made it. |
Lots of mint to be sure, My knees were becoming stiff. I |
changed over to my left rump and felt better about it. |
The music had just Stopped (sort of an overture I es,
plied in kind. They removed their veils...and now you want
to know what they looked like don't you? You see, I told
you the Moors had a smart idea...it works every time.
Strictly speaking they were not so bad, I would have admit-
ted them to my harem any day, provided of course they were
accompanied by sufficient dowry. You don't take any woman
in Morocco without a nice fat camel or two thrown in. The
less pleasing the face....the more camels. I have seen
some Moorish women I wouldn't take for a whole heard of
camels. Oh, the Moors have the right idea all right. These
particular damsels would require about two camels apiece I
should judge. Perhaps a hard man would require an extra
mule and a gallon of olive oil with mine. Now a good camel
costs about twenty dollars. Yes, either one of these eae
were worth forty dollars. Their faces were Shalt ede a
free of pock-marks, their flanks were not over-fat ye ne
too lean, their heir seemed to be free of parasites, a aoe
their chins were rather aged ea ae ene Hee
. Verily, a lusty forty do f
aS niak vibbe to eee what I could do about it come next
eres if the blood of my sheep flowed suf-
Ramadan. At that time CA Ted a wouIa's seam
ficiently well, and the prophet willed, 2
about it. True, there was a de-
its ate Be ae oe two more to feed...bah, t'was
ty Sees During all this meditation on my part the
lassies in question were di
Morocco.
srobing, quite a process in
When they finally got down to a snake-skin belt


~~
ee og $
A ee ae, Pa Ra h5
c=) ae
Le aes
cannot to this day divine... put then !
you; some new trick up their Sleeve petite 4 ape AC
be Oe began to make weird abuses on his instrument
the dance begun! Slowly the contours of their coffee-
colored bodies began to undulate. Their bare feet made
soft tappings upon the earthen floor. That candle was
sputtering again. I took another sip of tea and felt like
a damn fool. The whinings ana the screechings grew in in-
the rythm was increasing, The candle dropped a molten
piece of tallow. The girls, facing each other now, were
winding and twisting themselves into Arabic alphabet. I
thought of hollering for the letter M, but decided against
it.
The rest of this report I sha
evening when the wind is howl
will pay me for it. My very be
11 save for some cold winter
ing off the Lake and somebody
st regards to you, Commodore.


HOTEL CRISTINA
Algeciras,
SPAIN.
March 16, 1933.
Dear Mother & Dad ~
>
SS Saaee £T sot S 2. EE
Fat + Re Se > ,
Rae, f ee dala
xX" for Genoa. Gibralter
Clock this morn-
"Rex", I am going "Special" ela
SS. j
the price of first class. . © shal We dneeeae ae
days. Then I shall 60 on to Milan, Paris ana Antwerp.
I found -Africa very interestin
would like to explore it all. [I got Shier: SF hgh arpe
into central Morocco as it was. Plenty of hardships
but extrenely interesting. The Foreign Legion was cut
to pieces fifty miles from where I was. You dontt i
read about it in the papers, but there is fighting go- . /—
ing on all the time there. The day I left Sefron a
battalion of "Le Legion" that had béen fighting for 2
- months marched through the town on their way back to
i their base. They were certainly a sorry mess, uniforms
Pa all torn and looking generally pretty war torn.
yt It would be utter folly for me to attempt to
' write you everything that happens to me or everything
I see. If I should attempt it, I should be writing
| all the time and would never have a chance to see any-
My thing. The most of it I shall have to save until some
: time next summer when we shali all gather round in the
after cockpit of the "Nagerac" and I shall spend hours
telling you all about life. You may rest assured, how-
ever, that there is no place like America - absolutely
fio place! How any American can voluntarily expatriate
“hg themselves and live in a foreign country is completely
a beyond my comprehension. America is, and will be for
are some time to come, the greatest, most efficient and
re | leasantest nation on earth! I say this only after
Vv acauired a rather intimate knowledge of the oth-
= lope aod near-great nations. At times I et NS
come so exasperated that I have almost panes np e
sponge and hopped the next poat back to N. Y. a) eee
excuse inefficiency, hardships and general incompetance
in barbarian or semi-civilized peoples such as the


NA
4
Moors, the Riffs, anq SO forth ; ai
2 ° Bu ‘ a pis om iW
ligent, civilized races to be as foe Ane tae tastes |
they are, is not only inexcusabl
€, but ext a ;
Spend. “Cb serve es e€xperience, The BHAten area ee Hi
lute pinnacle of imcompetence, 4
Th t ai
properly! I shali regale you ys oe t do anything i
on my return to Chicago, I mig ay
going to be a real master of ersuasi far
question of their customs being dittere: pice ate
difficulty or unpleasantness in accu
strange customs of the Moors. What little they do, they
do well. God knows the European nations do not. TI
bought a French made Vietrola. Supposedly a good one.
Need I say more than that it fell to Pieces in two weeks?
And a Frenchman helped me buy it!
Well, enough for now. Wow regarding the expense Hi
of this trip. If in any Way my trip should prevent your
putting the "Nagerac" in the water this Summer; I should
never forgive either myself for doing it or you for al-
lowing me to. I should far rather return to Chicago. I i
would a heil of a lot rather ride in the "Nagerac" than i
an Arab anédhow! |
All my love,
Ernest \


Dad:
Please acknowledge receipt of this report and, if
you don't mind, give me an idea as to what you think of
it. Some of the things in here could not possibly have
been found out by anyone but wa young American college-
boy just off on a little pleasure jaunt". There are a
couple of other things I know about Morocco but to spill
them on paper would land me in the Bastille, one, two,
three!
Ernest.


REPORT
ON CONDITIONS tw VARIOUS PLACES
CALLED AT BY ERNEST GANN BETWEEN
LISBON AND MILAN.
CONFIDENTIAL


ent in the Portuguese mind, The only town of any size aa
or importance whatsoever is Funchal; a backward little
city draped about a Mountain side. 4 Shipping firm by
the name of Blandy's controls practically everything on
the island. There is 4 very small amount of shipping and
an indifferent tourist trate. Telephonically, L was una-
ble to see any possibilities whatever, The permanent Euro-
pean population is quite small and the natives are much
more concerned over eaking out a slender living than using
telephones.
LAS PALMAS, CANARY ISLANDS:
The chief city of this fairly important group of
islands is Las Palmas. A surprising amount of shipping
passes through this port, the larger part destined for South
America, The islands are Spanish possessions but. somehow
Seem to Have overcome this definite handicap and manage to
give a fair account of themselves. The principal products
7
y
e Barks,
«* ,
» By
¥ Wy)
LA
wis
Ga
4 ¥
i Bek
ait
“
J
Ae
Pi oy
ui ie
ee
aay
|
oF
AL
a
es
=<
———


ae
Pa
Lik
4
fs®
ee hsan” Phd Supa, Cane
e
living in Las Palmas, the nae
any peoples or Companies, or EToups, that in any way partic-
Se wer ccee Countries, are letting themselves in for a
are a backward, unreliable race.
CASA-BLANCA, FRENCH MOROCCO:
0 ee
In the brief space of ten years, Casa-Blanca has
grown from a dirty little Moorish fishing village to one of
the world's major shipping ports. At the point of a eter
narets bayonet the French, in their inimitable manner, have
whipped Morocco into a highly profitable and progressive
colony. Casa-Blanca pales shipping from all parts of the
world, boasts of fine shops, offices and several factories
in addition to a large European population. A great amount
of building is in progress and business in general is giv-
ing a right good account of itself. I would recommend an
immediate investigation, if one has not already been made,


be .
ao
e OSSibili: Les in
to th p Le x this C1 In el ti
: ; VY « 8g a on to the
sve there LS one fa Cc tor I wou Ld Li}
AC LA
the Privilege of
in any dealings
t man oe
mentioning. At any time,
With the French
people, the bes
with them. I am afraig the Beneral impression in America
tends to underestimate the French, By no means should a4
Calibre op POSition be sent
ary "scouting". They are & shrewd
man of inferior
to do prelimin-
9 Sagacious, cClosely-knit
nation; to forget these facts for
One moment is to allow
them just the opening they are looking for, and they will
promptly and decisively get the "jump" on whomever they
might be dealing with.
FEZ, FRENCH MOROCCO: AL 4
SE
Fez is in reality, two cities. There is the old city,
BR
changed not one iota since the Roman Legions stuck their
spears into it, and the new city about half a mile away
that strives desperately to bring a little bit of Paris to
the dust and flies of central Morocco. The old city is com-
prised of a heterogeneous cock-tail of approximately one
hundred and fifty-thousand Moors, Riffs, Berbers, Senegalese,
Hamyans and an occasional European. Business is conducted
exactly as it was in the days of the Savior, and so it will
tu-
be conducted a thousand years hence. I was extremely for
f mer-
nate in making the acquaintance of several of the chie
neir vari-
chants of the city, partook of several meals at the
ple opportunity to talk
ous houses, and as a result had am metic
h them in their own solemn m
it
business and conditions wit
Cae trate the telephone possibilities
I think I can best illus


by citing the case of my Partioy
ghis many, with his two brothers
ane fifty odd rooms, His Starr Of gs
lightly dismissed, ang, @lthough 1 Torbore the w
enquiring after the Numbers of his testi *'s sedh"t, "
ne does not stint himself in this respect, ik isis eee
sherife is a highly respected, Prosperous, Moorish Sithc..
you may ask what 91] this has to do with telephones, tf i
merely want to illustrate that in his own city the Sherife
kind become telephonic Prospects. He has one antiquated tel-
Ces ac pabhet exbensixg shop and assures me that it
is seldom he has Occasion to use it, Why should a man bother
with a telephone when it is so much easier and pleasanter to
talk business over a Steaming hot glass of teas in the rear
of your customerts shop? Hence I think we may dismiss the
old city of Fez for some time to come as a possible market.
You couldn't present them with a P.A.x.
The oe is little more than a military garrison
with a usual complement of ten thousand soldiers. Constant
fighting in the south, however, reduces this figure to two
or three thousand most of the time. The French being a lit-
tle touchy about prying eyes prevented my inspecting in any
, . | 3 town.
detail the several fortresses that surround the old
| tai nt
I was unable to determine what kind of telephone equipme
ey+ : ir garri-
was in use but I am certain there is some type. Their g
SO sae coe fee tare centers are so spread


Fey
three op four-undred line
» In connection with this ite
\ eae
1 spend a lot of money ‘ "
t
Spend anywhere else. I have
went down there to the Proper parties ab
RABAT and MEKNES, FRENCH MoROcco:
In these two Secondary towns Practically the same condi-
tions exist as do in Fez, Both are military garrisons and
are made up of an old and a4 new town. Rabat is also the so-
called "Seat of the Government", it being the residence of
the present Sultan. The Sultan is Still supposed to be the
ruler of Morocco, the French being careful that the natives
are made fully cognizant of this. In reality, he has about
as much to say as the Vice-President of the United States.
From reliable information, I determined that he is a flacid
youth of twenty-two or three, the recipient of an ample al-
lowance from the French Government (4 million francs - unof-
ficial), and an annual trip, at their expense, to Paris
where he is "well provided for", The French see to it that
his worries and wants are few and far between. 1% would
never do to have him think too much.
GUESSAN, FRENCH MOROCCO: és
porder of Spanish Morocco and of no
A town close to the
importance telephonically.
Ah,


Ge
GaNGIER., SPANISH MoROCco.
French want something, the g i
Panish object to i
ty and if the
nations are draining the town dry by taxation, has rendered ee i
any profitable business practically non-existant. The Aba i
recent growth of Casa-Blanca is due in some measure to the
degeneration of Tangier,
ALGECIRAS, SPAIN:
A small Spanish town situated across the bay from Gib-
ralter and certainly possessing no telephonic possibilities.
GIBRALTER:
Previously reported upon by Mr. Cavell.
MILAN, ITALY:
I spent a day and ae of a night with Messrs. D.
Galassi and de Bondini of ie Milan office. I visited the
two offices now being used by them ané@ also the race-tracks
where hogaieeas are now in progress for the installation
of Bein Cees, eee I left before the deal was definitely
closed but poth Mr. Galassi and Ur. F. J. de Ramer, Totali-
; : : ident that they would be
Sator Sales Manager, seemed confide
: | ‘de Ramer has drawn up a very comprehensive
Successful. Mr.


-
72
nation Pr
Proposal for the Milan n
Totegn
eS"s 8 copy of which
was kind en
he ugh to give me. Bea
© Ramer is en
extreme—
Se = PS Sy
Stee
FS
oy i
_ eee
ion Bounds. I have ap-
-
figure bu
that the outlook for "Totes" here ; t do believe
S
SS ee SS
encouraging, T have
3
VV a
/ ) in A
} 4
d Mii Lan { | 7
ee
Nee ek a
and they are quite enthusiastic
a o- Pile the Totalisators. iy
institution. BOgFCR Nine sie ORkieyy 08 bi
At the present time Mr. Galassi believes that the lar-
gest market for equipment in Italy will be found in small
inter-communicating systems of ten lines or less. He men-
tioned that he has been unable to obtain a system of this
type that would fill the local requirements and as a result
Siemens & Halske are constantly getting the business. S. &
H. are in an extremely strong position in Italy and it is
only by concentrating on the development of such a system
that it will be possible to give them any competition, he
believes. He also complains that S. & H. are practically
always able to underquote him and that as a result the Ital-
ian companies are beginning to lose interest in his prod-
He is particularly anxious that he be able to quote
ucts.
quiry he has recently received
a fairly low figure on an en
for a large order of condensors for Genoa and vicinity, in
challenge Sie-
order that he may again pe in a position to
mens & Halske's virtual monopoly at present.


7
The Zurich Agreements,
as [ Understand them
» Were crea-
fed for the purpose o¢ Prote
Cting the various companies con-
cerned, and to prevent disastroys price.
of them. From various observations,
make « An Automatic Switch is an Auto
Cutting by any one
T have this comment to
matic Switch, is it not,
One manufacturerts Switch
differ from that of another company's? It Still performs
the same function. For one Company to Proceed to politely
SES ARG STR a Ee
underbid the other to a Considerable degree on the theory
that their product is an entirely different piece of equip-
ment (or system) due to Slight differences in construction,
seems to me to tax the toleration of the "Agreements" just
a bit heavily. I think the situation bears Some investiga-
tion.


March 29th » MVSSe
We had today the ifs
gprnest Gann. His health is Sohekace meet in Brussels,
Unfortunately he coulda not 5s
the ti
He promises us to come back from
z An a
sels and pass a little more twerp to Brus
time with us. So we expect
y or Sunday next and we will
do our best to keep him a bit in our city.
From Ernest we heard that yourself and Mrs. Gann
are in good health and that the things are 0.K. for you.
Please accept from Mrs. Jacobs and Berthe anda my-
self, our best regards for Mrs. Gann and yourself.
Very truly yours,
Hri. Jacobs,
91 gde. rue au Boils,
Brussels,
Belgium


caBLE - ANTWERP apr, 4
N
oan Lakeshore
Bt ong recommend investi at
r ly gate fully Continental Europe
a ordnance i
jlitary ordn POSSibilities for Antwerp factory
grust my information and do not ask questions. N bod:
e obpody
yxnows this has been sent,
Would it be possible for Price accompany me Berlin to
translate and explain leaving Friday night. Expect to
stay one week
ERNEST


- <i,
= SS x ~
=,
Noo? Stafforg House F
r olk Street Strana
mdon, Wc. 3 :
Sth April 1933.
wr. Ernest K. Gann,
c/o Mr, Milton y, Price
Automati
¢ Electric 4
ANTWERP, ~"'©S Co.,8.a,
My dear, Ernest:
Frankly, your telegr
for me to answer. ‘The td am is ra
ther embarrassing
. tion is this i
delighted for Price to go to B : would be
is only a question of giving erlin with you, and if it
purpose I would be ready to ask Mr,
necessary arrangement
frankly, if Price's expenses
bills, etc.,
would be very bad for the mor
I were to allow it.
On
take care of
to Mr. White
to Berlin so
telephone. or
» including fares, hotel-
are to be: borne by the Company I think it
the other hand, if -yow have enough money to
his expenses then you may take this letter.
and tell him I would agree to Price going
long as we know where to reach him by
telegraph, but make it clear to Mr. White
thatthe Company will not be involved in any expense.
I am sure you will not resent my frankness and
that you will realise fully the many reasons why 1 am
obliged to take the view set out in this letter.
With kindest thoughts,
Yours
R. PLEVEN


Pes
eae: SN *
= = c
Se
ia , Rene Pleven,
4 18, Stafford House y
3 22°? LONDON , A
a a
. BG/FK
a 6th April, 1933.
pear Mr. Pleven, |
; a
ie I received
‘ : want you to know that if there i 4S
- Ss one th \ ee
‘ a from the communication, it is not to nag i learned U) mh
Le cutting down the number of words in a telegram mowed
ply to my telegram today and
4 I did not have the sli
E : ghtest idea t -
- pany would pay Price's expenses to Berlin ig ee
a agree with you that it would be very bad for the morale of
the organisation if you would agree to it.
However, due to the fact that ~
tioned in both his letters to you and PO af
possible he would like to have him go with me to Berlin, I
have dug in the fast deepening pocket and somewhere found
aan the price of his expenses. 1 am sure that his help and
a local knowledge will justify in the end my personal expen-
ee diture.
I also received your letter the other day .com-
menting on my report to Mr. Blomeyer and am very glad you
enjoyed it.
My pest regards to you and I: sincerely hope that
Mrs. Pleven is improving.
Yours very truly,
ERNEST GANN


> i, ij
Ag
{
AUTOMATIC ELEGY
TC SALES Company. g A ie
> ° .
#2 RUE DU VERGER,
“<a ANTWERP
Mr. George K. Gann,
100, West Monroe Ss
CHICAGO. °°*
EG/FK
6th April, 1932.
pear Sir,
I am enclosing comm
un
Pleven and myself regarding ~airagien Sa phi tL ms a
me to Berlin. S accompanying i
Tae" Wd : As you can see from ,
3 my letter, I
ae pay his expenses to Berlin because as t ere =
veers coerce sae I consider the expense will be
d more justifie n the benefit I
. . pee re shall receive
I have spent the past week and a half in
a4 a Antwerp going over the factory and becoming acquainted
a4 At with the various foreign agents and the general situa-
- te tion of European sales, and so forth.
a It is practically four months now since if
#4 left Chicago, but as far as my progress is concerned,
¢ it will certainly be another four before I return home.
“Kindly give my regards to Messrs. Adams, Gary,
Blomeyer. and Harris.
Yours sincerely,
ERNEST


Norfolk H
ouse
Victorig Embankment
Gime tigre
7th April, 1933,
pear Mr. Gann,
During a recent visit to Antw
son Ernest. i was, unfortunately, ble = ends Oily |
a few minutes with him, but sufficiently long to eoaltee
that he seems to be having a very interesting time and
is acquiring quite a lot of useful information.
You will, no doubt, be pleased to learn that he
looked and expressed himself as being very fit.
Best wishes,
Yours very truly,
G. W. MOORE
G.K. Gann Esq., ain
100, West Monroe Street,
CHICAGO, age :
U.S.A. | ;
cwM/WD.


oe on
Se ie a ce ee
Soe ae Se
R2 Rue
Berchen,” Vereers
Antwerp
Belgium,
7th April 1933,
your son.
It has been a
great pl
to pleasure +t 1
fee veaie Hae of our staff eS idee See and
a0 an Z that was possible to make hi urnest and to
ing and also educational. See eee ce
During his visit he
interest both in the Atea Rove we th pce eee
our organisation dealing with international Bias and I
took the opportunity of inviting him to a new conference
we have just arranged which deals with exploitation prob-
lems.
: It also so happened that through mutual friends I
have just been able to make contact with Mr. Wright who
now is in control of the Bell Works here and apparently
responsible man for all their Continental interests, and
as I had arranged for him to dine with me last night, I
asked Ernest to postpone his visit to Germany so that he
might join us at dinner and meet Mr. Wright. As a result
of our friendly gathering I hope it will be possible to
the price cutting which has
make some arrangement to stop
ection with Post Office stores and
been going on in conne
which will eventually develop in connection with rural
exchanges unless such an arrangement is arrived at, but
as this matter involves questions of policy 1 propose to
obtain Mr. Moore's views on this subject before develop-
ing the position any further. In the meantime, however ,
your son will have the opportunity of going over the Bell
Works.
i i ersonal letter I would like
t ie ee ee ae er aga with the amount of com-
pe t I think is possessed py Ernest and I feel
mon sense tha give him a
which I hope one
day can be used to cons
rh ea exploitation.
with overs
ith very kindest regards,
pee eae Yours faithfully,
W. BURNINGHAM WHITE
pie, A
Ee oetiet aye
>i in aia


i fi ee
ph
pee ahi
Chicago,
April EO, 2933.
NLT
WILLIAMS
LONDGARY
LONDON (ENGLAND)
Please forward Ernest Eden Hotel Berlin five hundred
dollars
‘GANNGOR


C. cragé .
by vice President & Treasurer
April 7th, 1933
r. Geo. K. Gann,
c/o Theodore Gary & Compan
bs 100 West Monroe St., 224 Floor
Chicago, Illinois. é
Dear George:
—— ey
Helen and I had a great 1
augh in i 1
report of the Ouled Nail. Helen is today rendiae beset
of her clubs as she felt it was not only entertaining but
very educational and that the ladies would all enjoy it.
Ernest has certainly developed alon j
writing and I hope he will carry on i it ee nae
has real talent. His descriptions are especially good. I
shall be glad to receive copies of any further reports he
may make.
i If you could give us Ernest's address, I should
like to write to hin.
With kindest regards to Carrie and yourself, I am
Yours very truly,
Ape
ACC/EEC


cABLE-BERLIN APR, 9
NLT
Rs in Berlin with Price Al
oe ible Seven 1 well
in possi undred doll] Writing as ;
Hotel for week Love ars left sto often as () \
ying Eden a
|
ERNEST
ove CABLE-BERLIN APR. 16
ae NLT GANNGOR
CHGO
Eight hundred seventy left in tre
advice Grand Hotel Vienna Aji il eee
ERNEST
April 17, 19336.
NLT
ERNEST GANN
GRAND HOTEL
VIENNA
Continue trip as planned but economize stop
j Wiring Williams today forward you one thousand dollars
F with care this should cover balance of trip
ee:
#
Buy American Express checks Love
GANNGOR


Berlin,
April 12, loz.
pear Mother and Daq:
zp think whatsveu are berfeetly Justified in Mee aol :
complaint, but to tel] you the truth, sitti making this ‘
pounding out any decent sort of a letter a Beak )
pocket ichid Peverbeeuptstaliy naples it sa .
or the last ‘
two weeks. The charming little city
sessor Of the world's worst Climate in ny opinion, I
spent a week and a half there and felt perfectly rotten
the entire time. In addition I was entertained somewhat
on the lavish scale that Irene Sinclair encountered in Am-
erica and was totally exhausted when the day finally came
that I packed together my safari and left for Berlin. With
the aid of Berlin's exhilarating Climate, a bit of re-
gained sleep, some Munchner beer, and the final passing of ay
my African infection, I am again the interested spectator NY
of the world. Speaking of my African infection, which of
course you have not heard about....now that it is over it's
alright to tell you.....it was a Lu Lul Some one of their
charming little bugs that so populate that country had the
effrontery to bite me. Not bite me once or twice or even
three times, like any self-respecting bug might, but the
dam thing had to sink its teeth into me five times, Tt
Seemed to confine itself pretty well to my fingers. For
i le
@ while my hands looked like @ combination between a
It's practically all gone now
per
and a passe prize fighter.


Be
an bet
mat you © US Pub me Heat be
gneeny named Meyrowi tz and get hin +
© rig me
such aS I am attempting. Go to bed as you will, abstain as
you will, travelling is the most exhausting Condition of
jiving one could possibly encounter. You must remember
that I have been at it for four months now, and when I look
on the map and note the thousands of miles I have yet to
conquer, I sometimes breath a sigh of resignment and in the
back of my mind contemplate the possibilities of jumping on
a boat from New York. I have become a very special specie
NY \
of human being. I am constantly running into someone who
has been in the States since my departure and hence that
person becomes more learned on American matters than I.
Also things seem to be changing so fast there just at pres-
ent, that I am sure I shall not recognize my own homeland
when I eventually, (God willing) set foot upon its sacred
soil. In other words, I have become sort of a man without
pout over the face of Europe and each
a country, wandering a
ge pil-
week laying my exhausted head upon @ new and stran
so long that I have forgotten
low. I have already been gone


i j er station I might be departing from
very glad you like my reports
t intended to be Wi cy:
no anything but general impressions of a
ns country, but I assure you that the moment I enter an
nh gael ew
: country I attempt to look at it from a purely unbiased
ca i
One open-minded, standpoint, and seek to derive my local infor-
mation from people in all walks of life who are best fit-
I have just coneluded
FLED Non ted to give me the true conditions,
‘OS Wope rather lengthy and detailed visits to both the Antwerp f)
ay ee plant and Siemens and Halske and a report upon both will
ied 26 shortly follow this letter. I was wondering the other day
Se what I am going to do when I get back to America. Perhaps ,
doereq I can hit Ray-Bell for a job. I guess I can still develop )
Peer a film. By the way, you might be interested to know that ;
ee igen so far not a single one of the so-called weaker sex, has
: ee succeeded in getting a rope around my neck. 1 haven't
ik seen a one that would give me a single sleepless niet wn
ts all my travels. I think this fact menders\me permanently
09 F | hors de combat. | :
ets My plans for the future ate these. I am leav-
to the Hartz Mountains for
ing tomorrow morning and going


Ae
tle week-end tr
, 14% 1p over Easter.
ere [ shall
put up in
ine trees, and
Bet quite possibly ee Lh
ave sufficient
peer)» yodett. There shall lente iy ac
yori ting I have been wanting to do. inns and do a lot of
pack to Berlin for a day and take a night a Wie
after a few days and an pene eee re? ni for Vienna.
poat down the Danube to Budapest. From ages ie:
pycccond a (I always do) wagon-lits to PC ates ©
ple
qnere I shall see if the Sultan can use a good strong y
oung
nan to guard his harem. I shall then go overland by train
3
ar, camel, mule, and God knows what to Port Said, where on
9
¢
tne eighteenth of May I shall board the Kushini Maru (or
mething like that) and settle down for a nice little sea-
trip of twenty days to Colombo. Just exactly what the temp-
erature will be in Colombo in the latter part of May I hesi-
tate to contemplate sper, put it will probably be a balmy
sea-breeze compared to Penang which should welcome me to its
elass A furnace sometime jn June. Now don't ask me for a
you that you know just
schedule beyond that because I assure
as well as I, what comes. next. I have found, and I speak
to make 2 sehedule for a trip of this
from experience, that
day American who, armed
in to the present-
sort is closely ak
inevitably adds some bit-
yr a fine cocktail,
with a recipe fo
If you will always address me
ters or something of his own.
care of Williams,
the letters will eventually reach me.
And now to pedeceer®
a


WHEN yoy __
the street » towards
the car-line, in >
farch of ny
Playmate, Ber
nard
; ;
the Jew's child, f remember the Shiny wax
3
floors in his house » his dark-haireg Mama ey
er ¥
serving out rice and curry to we hungry child-
ren. "Can I stay to Bernard's fer luneh, Wa?..
---elyes, darling, but be sure to be back for
your nap". ....1 remember his barn and the big
tree at the side of the house where we'd spin
tops. Even the narrow passageway between his or
barn and his neighbor's fence that wetd dash ‘
through to greet the arrival of our hero the ice
man. The pleasant smell of fresh md and new
buds.....egrass to fight our mighty battles upon
«+seback to our grey framed house....the rug in
red, yellow and blue with its intricate designs
on my hands and knees tracing them Outecce.
eoeoee
you Mother, at the upright, playing, "Just a :
Song at Twilight"...singing it in a voice I
shall never forget...as beautiful as your young !
member? I always listened and
mother!s face...re
e fast
play some more...play som
said, "Mother,
pecause then
And you'd play it tose.
music".


re)
S foy
big round lignt brown eat better
fringed cloth
let me Keep ny best toys
*eeethe Vv
boy down the streey Be, “TY Uly littie
**ees.the nice
mell of pealed wood
their Popes and axes...
night that made me laugh....when 1 Was standing
on the bed, and you were undressing me and you
saw a man looking in the window... .you Caught his
eye..he ran, and stumbled across a tin ean.... I
went to sleep very quietly and you were seared.
Winter, and Christmas time...my new cowboy
suit with the red handkerchief, the pistolss< 6%.
and how hard it was to get me to pose for a pic-
ture against the tree in the side yard.... and
Dad took pictures of us making flying eagles in
the snow...oh, and remember the snow house we
built in the front yard....how long I extolled
its merits, and finally got you to crawl inside
;
eooee0e té i ts t th UL of ht U ; y uti-
ful Ohio Ri ver" for me eoe .and. I ! a be happy on the
floor.
, or was it
Then we moved to Park Streeteces 0
@eee


garage. eee the man down ~
on the corner Who lived in
a little white stucco cottage and called
ed his
children after the. letters in the alphabet
abe
geeeceA,
was my special companion, and he was very thin be-
cause they only fed him peanut butter on crackers
for lunch....then something about a war, and a man
who came to visit us in a fine brow wniforn....
Howard Johnson and his runny nose that even I AGS
= didn't like....the vacant lot behind the house and i 7
the nice smelly corn that long ago had gone bas
seed..ethe new house across the street reeking of
fresh cement and tar-paper....in the afternoon,
the plack-plack-plack of the carpenters! hammers
who so obligingly interfered with my hateful nap
~eeand you'd leave me alone in the house while you
went downtown to shopeeeeil'd climb up on the green
ittle
ue flowers and press my 1
couch with the bl
| the east window-
st the windowsill of
ery and cryees
and in
red. knees again
you...and ery and
didn't love me any more".sess
tipe-
and watch for
cause my Mummy


Pherae se Hg Dlay "Darden 1
Cllesn
the Home Fires Burningn
rt was a big man now,
nHearts Of the Worign
» you see,
as
Go AS a a doubt, brought me a new sol-
dier suit,....with a gun and ever-thin...and nae
United States Navy set with Card-board battle-
shipS.....then one day, there arrived from France
all wrapped in dirty brow burlap, a German helmet
eooeefOr me.....from my uncle who was a soldier
and who was killing the "Huns" as fast as could
be..-..-e-and I hated the Germans more than ever,
and had my picture taken with a gas-mask, a real
one too, on?.....and you began to play “Over Theret
and "K-K-K-Katy at theK-K-K-Kitchen Door", in the
evening.....and every night I'd go to sleep think-
ing how fine it would be to live like one of those
cowboys or Indians did that were running around
the ceiling of my very own room and killing buffa-
loes in big clouds of white Gustecceccccnsccsecce
"Rings on Her fingers, and pells on her toes,
=. " eaoa®
Elephants to ride upon. .-da-da-da-da-de da".


street with a lot of people ringing cow-bells ana
plowing whistles....and the Rainbow division march-
ing down the main street ana someone held me up
by the elbows so that I could see "our boy sts’. .
and my little book of War Savings Stamps lying
forgotten and forlorn in a drawer alongside a
Christmas letter from my grandmother....the red
brick school where one perspiring afternoon I
electrified my audience with a recitation of "Caw
Caw, says the black Crow"....and the girl called
Ruth with the sticky-out teeth and the very red
lips who lived in a yellow frame house with a big
lilac tree in front of 4t...eand how I thought
how fine it would be to marry her someday and
fight for her against the "Huns"..... and Ernest's
gotta girral, Ernest's gotta girral,
gotta girral......and in the evening you'd sing
your clear young voice,
Brnest's
again at the upright in
LS


Ge
pitch our wagons up together and make a 1g
: unset
Limited"....and in the evening even though I
tried hard not to, I coulda hear your voice
e@ cali-
E-r-r-r-n-n-n-
ing, ?-N-n-n-ne-est, E-e@-~e~e-e-r-p-n-n-e-gt i
a 9
B-e-e-e-r-r-Pr-r-n-nest, and then I'd have to Stop
playing and run right away home through the fast-
redning glow of the evening sun because my Daddy
had come home. Jt ;
b
Then we moved again to another grey frame
house this time that was all dark but I liked it
because it had a nice alley at its side and a
side yard I could shoot Huns on....and Father had
some Geraniums planted along the side of the
house that he was very proud of, and one day it
stepped on one and he swung his hand at me and
missed because I dodged out of the way....-and 1
told me to beat it into
laughed and so did he and
e day he bought me 4 nice new
the house...-then on
and
blue bicyle with sil
even silver spokes.»
yer nameplates on it,
~.and I took it and rode out


a man ran over
i=) ahal hi
S car
nice new blue bicycle de * ++ -Smashed my
ve
r
je, and even sino toe : nameplates on
now it didn! ss wo 8 twisty mess
and Ow t hurt me a bit ake:
and how
aian't even Stop; but I cried and ae
Daddy after hi Paes
my Meeeso. and how he found him +
Last and ae got an e 2
ven better bicyele.
We moved again....this time to a little
red and buff cottage that stood on a steep t
er-
race with a wonderful slanting driveway
e@ee0eeON
Sewell street. And Dad wanted to paint the
nouse a different color....and did after a lot of
arguing...»the fresh smell of newly mixed paint Me
and the vacant lot burned over next door.....my AN | 4
very own room again, up in the sorta attic......
that had screens the wind used to sigh and whine ¥
softly through in the afternoon.....the big room
utd let me do anything I wanted to....and all
yo
d round and
my electric trains that ran round an
made a wonderful clicking noise when they would
hit the real switches... Billy Roth's swing that
I fell off of and broke my arm....and I knew it
right away because it was all twisted and funny r
then late
reamed and screamed. sees
like, and 1 se
pack from the
n or was {4t the nexteece
that afternoo
ave all the ice-cream
hospital where they let me h


Be
i wanted and I could shoy wy broken
eh yittle curley—headeg Janes ot en the rich
named Joyce didnt; have a brok
poy
lped me
11 out the big black words that were in the
spe
per right hand corner of the Ddage, "Telephone
i goes to St. Paul"......ana r lay on my stomach
ae floor and thought of Indians and trading
ve and you played "Just a Japanese Sandman", ..,
"Tea for Two" and.....GEE, I WISH I WAS A KID
" a
< AGAIN!
tains, Germany.
: the Hartz Moun
Written in
April 14, 1933.


April 18s
April. 20:
ae
Dragged in thi ie
Took a look aroung se".t™ this n Ae
cluttered together ~
drink wine to oe ernoo
only a Year... ccm ur ens: new wine Be Ng
ies seem to take + Kind of sii] Casting of tat 9
where witnessed n OTe Evenin Y, but the Aust- itt
resentations pes fe: bad ballet be the Opera aN Y
have gone to Amorien Convinced alee European rep- pa
Where is everyboa eos Almighty acages © artists Nan
million inhabs, Gee ck » I guess. Be
their little kni
of in a book Babs. Bhoboie raed axl a ivaeleei
led itt aa eeee ng about and wishing I
gh to buy a few tasty little 1
I thumbed through. Afterwards for a t pera
an hour in a toy shop looking for ee eae
in the way of tin soldiers. Business so aor ee
kept turning the lights on and off as I moved S
about the store. These people are very very poor
e-God they're poor! Dinner found me chewing eee
lash with the Krasny's and will find me in a simi-
lar position tomorrow for lunch. Stopped in at
the Femeine Bar on the way home and saw a drunken
American make a complete ass of himself, then a
fight, then bounced out on his fanny with a
bloody nose to his ecredit...did I help him....1
did not) Off for Venice tomorrow night..seventy
per cent reduction on account me friend Mussy's
throwing a Fascisti Exhibition in Rome and wants
everybody to rally round. God bless Fascism and
Mussit And so to bed.....l2:40 S.
Up betimes and out for a stroll with La Krasny
about the city. Took a look at the Spanish riding
school and also 2 rather tasty cathedral all under
Noon found me dining
her charming supervision.
with the damsel and her husband topped off with a
rather interesting cha
Austria over coffee.
news that the dollar wa
tomed gyarations, suppos
t on life and customs in
Learned rather startling
s performing some unaccus-
edly the most stable cur-


rency in the world...I1q]
usual rigmarole of Packin
Herr Krasny picked me up “ ceeeee in solitude >
; ran
tion. Jouncing along towards ee to the sta
perth. Think I shalj
as
called, "Are You my Little Wag beige oes Poh hone
f ei. Venice. ae ne Bete yee ma
1 ¢-* it isso cold. erfectly miserable weather af
gps? and wind and what not. Would love to see this city
F in the summertime when one can ride through the ca-
: nals of an evening without cont
and now Shall eat in more peace. Afternoon found
tortuous streets
put as I once was a boy scout I finally found my way
4 home again and topped off the afternoon with reading
eA 3 all about the famous women of Austria in a tasty
little volume I am now engrossed in. Evening gener-
alized about some Amer Picons in Harry's bar and a
ovie. Home, and so to bed with the waters of the
ena lapping beneath my window. 11:15. §


peat Mother and Dad;
Well right at this Baa
moment eer.
nna and Venice ang er ee ye
vie ¢hough the train a ever the Oly acing al
S doing its leyu2chine are between
©l damdest + aPPing
18)
even
track. I have aj
expect Poe cos coue hake preter s OUbTA tena,
oil again. © Pefore T eventgars®, ribbon and
aily trod ho
me
and I have Europea
eeakbe that2t Pare Mt fill of then Vk eee are al]
frankly I'm sieneeecnns very anxious to Austria. In addi-
four months of it. I a absentassn? I ought to pene pastes
anni ex
upsetting Gondolas in Venice after which T shalt few days
all journey to
then on down to Naples wh ‘pia
shall board the Suwa ieeaces 2 Geeiieeen ee of April, I
all sounds romantic as hell, doesn't it?) Welw ie inet
kids, it ain't. It would seem awfull ae kt atatdy
to board a Grand avenue car for Ft Snel li be ip a
handy place. Furthermore the Suwa Maru swe 73m ae
thousand ton ship...a little bugger and beens eae
trip out to them there parts. I used to think bee i
romantic to let the big liners go their wee Saeeee
august company to the little blighters...they don't ae =
fem too big for mé nowdays. I never zet on a boat ae eth.
You can tell a lot more than
out looking up its tonnage.
just. the size of a boat from its tonnage I have found.
I
Food, service, speed, everything depends on its tonn
have learned a lot of things au edtio, ay wanderings rien
of them is a lot about travelling.’ I am practically an
Emily Post of travel by now, and when I get home, God will-
ing, I am thinking of starting a travel agency that will
give its customers the real dope...even if they won't pay
any attention to it. Another thing I am now convinced of.
That is to
ere is one and only one way to see the world.
travel independantly as I am doing. How anyone can pretend
0 have seen it after a sky-lark on one of these cruise /
Ships is beyond me! What can they possibly learn of the (;
@ the conditions, by Ww
Countries. the peoples, the customs, an
; ak i r hose into a lot of old
ves have never
Tunning around and poking thei
forts and temples that the natives themsel
heard of? Better that they take their money and go to
thite Sulphur Springs. .eethere at least they won't bl
America a bad name by making asses of themselves. A ea
¢ that gets into an American tourist when he leaves


Qe
neath that causes him
eine fashion, pyre MOULd nok be
c
nis Pie in the fact Merge a the sliphtacs cr ten min
Tada There are no two wa i Spending =” Conscience e°® in
By et eS the the worig put it. 7e7cat deal of
pin 3 OSe of
our ‘ Far you who
tne pio aver than te ea : return at vouplating cirelin On
d a me only tempti P about on & well once and sett1 g |
offer nked me Off on the sostes,f the real egTutse that
e Osi coun
th the events and conditions of Anew, nat I was ne eee
or §
i * £i0ns »
0} ona stirring events will come r
end ott eeling down through the ages |
j ley The American dollar seems bo
alte First a moratorium catches me in Rerikesk Agri eae
: es cents to my name. Now just as I receive a pleasant er :
ht thousand in real bills it begins the most revolting gyra- i
: tions..1.¢.: down. But I am not the son of my father for b
nothing. Little Rollo sneaked round to a bank at the first
OE hint of a bad smell around the green-backs and purchased
La 23 for his dollars...Swiss francs. He scented a foul odor in
zee the air when he first learned of the dollar's madcap plunge
Meer so now he is just sitting back and blithely watching it
nas sink. The Swiss france being the most stable currency in
+10 the world, I cannot lose..that is unless it goes dom...if
si} so life won't be worth the living anyway. If I watch my
Pts and Q's, I might even stand to make some money.
Now one sad bit of news I must impart to you right now.
t letter you are going to re-
ae This is going to be the las
ES? ceive for a long long long time...at the very least a month
Aa | and a half. When once I jump off ae ae, abeas
hed no power of God can make
| vagd. ibm Metis to you in less than that
orld
from the other side of the Ww se you simply won't receive.
ae time. Dontt expect it, becau
i At the end of that time or more likely aie Mechs a
oY receive a very large batch from me-s.2°. GF te ond
ages have any doubts as to the veracity, 0f aati dined look up how
) @ think that I am trying to loaf on the jo 2 sate Ceylon to
oe long it takes the fastes® a bees frequent as Bison on
y enericad «Aad, bbe ae yourselves toiilsis soe ol
the western plains!
going off the deep end.


Ae
Be
6.
7.
¢2/
yow I shall answer a jo of
Mestions you have
i Put +t
I Learning to Speak french? (e)
le conversat
ace sei meny bad pce I can cap
s
my wants known, ene ry o
ch and generally a
make
Am ] getting more the I
Ought I would out
J of the
trip?
answer: Hell, this is not a trip.,.itt
eee Sa life!
why don't I get myseir in more pictu
res?
Answers I am practically aj
that I have given my camera ways alone. ™,
to some comars o% times
Panion they
Howts my gd ares condition?
ST etc a = amie dollar...it varies from ti —)
Occa ack of melancholy and quite orate ee ‘i
a dir
facee
pid I get any of that damned perfume in Fr
Answer: No, I did not} Remember, I go Recta,
customs every time I turn around. If f paid 5 mee
that stuff every time I declared iG sais: ould nae t
it would be worth its weight in ‘gold by the time I a
home. I'm terribly sorry Mother, as I would have liked
to have brought you some...but it jes aintt possible.
I'll buy you a barrel of it when I get home out of my
first salary check....then you can take a bath in it if
you want to.
Do I get home-sick?
Answer: Your damned right I dol
Is Africa dirty?
Answer: Have you ever seen a pig-pen?
Am I tired of European women?
Answer: 1 stopped looking at them three months agO..
.ehard on the eye-sight.
Do I have trouble in packing my pags?
Answer: Listen, some of these days Hom eine as
mad and throw the whole shooting match in the
rally?
the weather Mee eee Aunt Hetty?
How has
Rotten..-and how is_y
Answers
D uch drinking? :
cane ribs > ahaa reeling drunk all the time


t and give the Sto
riot I mee Ckings to L
newer? ponte a pry etouEh erittes teeth, 3?
ith the oS om o Clals o¢ eight different nope
Ww. get the damned things through to “hen < ations
ie” | aan so het up about then noth 2
im:
g uld have prevented © Short of 9 shogun
| | uad co ey rom Setting em to
ae Prelit destination. f[ had very little Chance to for-
ey ae : get aa ov Sha’ meeting her was almost worth the
“4y i f pother
Fi ‘11 ask you one, Why do you tell
ala ‘ | Bey es the Nagerac g0ing in the water en yee
Wis. ae 4 ppine? am jolting along in a 1900 edition Wagon-Lits on the
ry whe? tan porder?
Sef us
> A When I get home I am going to write a song Called,
OR : "jill you be my little Wagon-Lits tonight? ,
fA. 9h
55 ; only possible address I ean think of for you to
eet j ey Gouda che ease of N.Y¥.K. Line at Colombo, ‘Try
ase send Pa aie? © tell, I might receive itt
Lig Lt.
ne “S I'm tired and I want to gO to bed,
ab Your wandering son.
<
bee sa ,
a,
id
ee Sa
2
=


a
studying ‘vhe island; “the Natives, ang +
: Ty ing
that has 1
peen rattling around in ong
yet I
to catch up on a bit of writin
&
have not had a chance to put my thoughts dom
on paper. Almost every time I settle down to
do some writing I feel that I mst move on and
see some more of the world, and of course I
must then put a stop to whatever I am doing. I
am now getting so ga-ga from looking at the
world that I am not sure whether I am looking
at Vesuvius or Fujiama. I think that one
reaches the saturation point after while, a
point where new countries fail to interest and
That is one of the
ave kurope
new things fail to impress.
chief reasons why I have chosen to le
and get Bast of Suez. I feel so saturated with
Europe, I have now spent some four eae a se
months wandering around over the face of —
European cheeker-board : that 3 no longer feel
the urge to see everything that opportunity we
4 ‘fers. Rather I find wyself following minor pub”


s in
ee Seno CARN Gry Maen. oe
| ink that I do. La
| th can be blamed for this © not
: to swallow all the worig ivioee : To attempt
gie gulp 4
Pisa
| ossi
falas ble to a mind only of Cyeio
bean propor-
; Prather
modest dimensions, I fing the task a LIGE
le be-
tions. Possessing on]
¥Y a cranium o
f
yond my means. More ana
on earth a person can ae er ae
ly get out of one of
| these world tours that show you "allt jike a
great magician in four or at the most five months.
Practically every wire that I have had
from you, and your letters also, beg me to write
in more detail as to what I see, what I do, et
cetera. Now the average letter to you requires
at least two hours of concentrated effort. I am
by nature and because I would rather write a
short good letter than a bad long one, a careful
It stands to reason
rather meticulous writer.
that a letter such as you desire, casting all
o the winds, would require
mental considerations t
This
: of me at the very teast a half day or more.
| time, 1 cannot give. I attempt to write you
twice a week although I realize that from time to
time I nave fallen far short of this mark. The
, reasons are obvious- One does not €° into a new


Se
town or country, take
& Walk ab
Out
and write about it,
they can from a wal)
> return to +}
= ho tel at t
he
d of the d
as ay and send out batterie
cards and letters telling gee
n
they have seen. In the idles 2 be ae
dom, and this will be Particularly hara ‘ very sel-
understand, that a traveler sees 4 Sen 0
have attempted to look up the word wes a ey
; exactly what this elusive word really means, I e
have no means to find out. I suppose it means eee
something different to everybody. Do you want me
to tell you in my letters that the Germans have
the finest sleeping car system I have ever seen
or do you want me to say that I saw Vesuvious
erupting yesterday? I think that the latter might ©
well be classed as a “sight®. However, if that
be true, it is the first "sight" I have seen since
“leaving home. Remember, the variety of my day's ©
‘adventures are probably very Little greater than —
stantly peholding spect- —
I am not con
whose very
me to the core and
nome and write a
your oywne
acles that thrill
: ‘majesty require me to rush right sae
4 ; ; ,. eg = s e-
a :: eulogy on their merits. 1am not constantly bd
coming involved
4n weird adventures and consumate
strils are not assailed daily by
-tntrigues. lly 20
Dina gig come 8
i


aT ah
new and meaning odors
crys and sounds that
mystery of travel. On th
© whole
Se > I leag
wuaet. ary, peaceful, ©xistane eee
©; interry
pted
Climat
there is absolutely nothing k ory e. Many times
© abou Yo
° a
find this hard to believe, but it is th
e truth. [
that by rea, +
ding one
y good novel
» by attending a ve good play Tight in Chi
ry cago,
only by an occasional Change o¢
°
will venture to Say,
my soul or yours too, will be transported through
more environs of romance ana thriij than mine i
e is at
present, in a month. Such is the irony of 6 A
tal make-up. Teke for instance, Vesuvius. oe a |
talkie of it somewhere. It looks bat tisti® and our
mind at once conjures up within’ it visions of its
majesty, of the interesting people that live about
it, and we shudder to think of the horrible risk they
take in living so close to it. If we are at all mus-
ically inclined there runs through our thoughts the
strains of some gay Italian fandango. Napolean once
said, "Imagination rules the world". It does. Your
own imagination’ ean make Vesuvius so much more inter-
esting, majestic, and generally entrancing than it is.
in actuality that there 1s no comparison. In reality,
it is little more than @ fair’ sized unimposing mount~
¢ white smoke eoming out of the top.
a picture of Vesuvius
pably a
ain with a curl 0 :
Now just for experiment, pick UP
¢ > F de + A ws Ay bs . fo
and look at it a few moments. There are PD
e raw * sat CCH F
te Sats BO
1 ARG aaumaclle EME ,
“ se a ONE dae a
idol,
$e.
ine te 2S th - ath. Aes


3 \ gf De
» pundred around the hae: ote
3 e uy
pepartment™ has done its task eee
well,
| picture and let your ming weet Mes
e 4 Wig
FEN elle ages I imagination I Bite
9
termine what you See, what you think
gure that you are getting far more
“Ajoyment than
Fag On ES AE Ora waaay bring. g
everything. The one ©xeéption that 1 hav
© encount-
ered is, Morrocco. But th
Y Special
country, and I cannot set do
for that matter the real oa One day or ten
¥y and the real
romance of that seething section of the globe,
Then let it suffice to Say for this time, be-
eause I must pack, that I shall tell you everything
within my powers of description, as well as 1 can,
only limited by time and inclination. Remember,
winter is coming again and perhaps if I lie fast
enough and successfully enough, I can save the price
of a movie for the family by gathering it around the
fire-side and regaling it with tales of "Adventure
and Romance",
By the way, do you know where I had the most
adventure and romance in my life?...0n my little
boat, Caroline!
W.Y.K. Line office, Singa-
Write me care of the
that your letters take over a
Looks awfully Like I'm going
Now there
pore. And remember
month to get there.
| re
to miss the Nagerac again this Sumit
is ROMANCE!
‘ and catch the driving gale".
i vrNE at i 2a tie
"Spread the thin oar,
o.
J


April 24th:
any to do some dealing in Swiss
While there did ch
ase es aes
bored with the and gettin ant
town except canal gets. Not & pretty Aatica |
€ lesser importance, Y,
rena until well nigh noon conjuring 4 AT\|\
mind spectacles of ‘tortured Chris tiene and “K
what nots and after Satisfying my sould and
certainly my body in such wise, did proceed to
my hotel where I lunched in my room. Paid
little attention to my lunch, however, as am
now engrossed in “Murder Considered as One
of The Fine Arts", a delectable volume by one
Quincey. Continued thus until four o'clock
whereupon I called on Miss Eleanor Keith, an
American girl of my acquaintance, and did dis-
course with her upon this and that. We dia
go out for a bit to view some right brave jun-
pers at the local polo field but as the wind
was of a biting type did return, and after
performing our abolutions proceed to the fam-
ous Alfredos to sup. We grew a bit merry over
our wine and all in all it was an evening of
the distinctly pleasanter sort. Home at 8
early hour, however, and though I os a 2
set to work upon some writing, did no a ee
mental unrest being of such nature as
| ic ht cheek-by-jowl with
der constructive thoug tian Jet LESOO
impossibility. And so to bed then Saw
erican Express Comp-
spate Francs and
finding it not as yet possible to accomplish
rastinate a few days.
ae BBC Oe iG cated ggke in conversa-
Up betimes and to


April 26th:
: k
thing leading to another S.Young Italian
fol
un
this tin found ine 7 PESO
eigued afterlo,cheperone) SE4!0 with niegit
ee Walking aig poets most fa-
& off to
Believing that one Soe pebeia ineseertee
The day en-
from home,
some time, "From th
Flag", a tasty velaee eee Eagle to the Req
Later: to a solitary dinner as inexpensively as
possible, my conscience bothering me after so
extravagant a day. Remained in my room all the
evening reading my new book and writing a letter.
To bed at a reasonable hour. &.
Rather a dull day on the whole. I am just mark-
ing time really waiting for that boat to sail on
Sunday. Up betimes, and to the American Express
for the daily convocation of a group of young
American medical students at that place. Then
we did. stroll about the tom, lunch in a little
t and after which we viewed a
I talian restauran Bpas Vena tees
Lr er remarkable cathedral.
ces ee monestary have the charming bebl oaks solN
taking the skeletons of their deceased comrades
and hanging them about in sundry rieye® Teles .
Some of the artistic festooning faaes De amy
and skulls, with an occasional rib t rou gps
guite remarkable. As this ponte de, ape Fige
been going on for some number ol ¥ aCe Y
Lesbo aseurepe that, (B9y a a e Amer Picon,
Afterwards to a side pe eee ah evaping thay
hich I cannot seem to part
fron,


a. "
2s
sprit 28th:
April 29th:
Arose betimes
m Am :
peered to their ofrmetters.. gor Express gop ie Fy Vi ist Bab
useful] . n bey ae ie
of Fettichini ee and enjoy ay I ee sist,
a side Street, @ littie Solitary Pio | Rane |
; Aft Testaur luncheon <j)] 4 y
me back with my book tees or fear ene found in Yue eee
that Eleanor and e Evening + Clock, found as
and thence out I should game a transpired
until well nich 1 @ Dit e er together
wherein [ read. antnt® ©' clock SLTY, which we dig
row I journey to Waplessned my So wapeee
Naples: Arrived yh «
Ita terest
ing Some two and a h alt a, paPido, ‘en ete :
ny ass a AK
was a bit but nothing y ‘
a typical beautiful foutins eee cing: Naples is
to get all the "2 Sverybody out
Z can out of you. I
to the habit, ately, of going dategey eaten as
hotel room and staying there when I 4 inta eae
of these towns, Tourists have Spoiled all the
beautiful places in the world by making the meer
walking down the street an unpleasantry. I sat
in the lobby of the hotel after dinner for a bit
and listened to a rather painful orchestra, then
to my bed at Eleven olclock. §g,
Naples: This day did hire a sail-boat and in the AY
company of an old salt did sail along the coast .
and at noon put into an old Italian village for ia it
Spaghetti. We also took a walk there and viewed iy
a volcano know as "Little Vesuvius". A beauti- Ra t
ful sail and I picked up a nice coat of tan whilst ;
taking a siesta on the after deck. For a little
stroll after dinner and then to my room to read
i 7 tters before the boat carries
eee tr ee Twenty-one daySe..
me off the deep end tomorrow.
a re of a Ey yetere. Well, ponoenee a ss Cae
happy to be rid of this puree seeb ing | om see
been unusvally lonesome these pas i ae se
occurred to me that I have now peel ne
months away from homeland and friends. ae
there have been p
wonder I'm getting lonesome»: yt those can
m time to time, rote. To bed
le to talk to fro Ls
never take the place of WV oe ries
again at eleven. Getting to


he ala tal ae a "
eae Se a


yay
goth:
1st:
Naples: This
noon Tuminating goits dia 14
like to write n the Var © abed unt
mach. Winatly fou 2 a1acue Ueings Ph slaget
custom, in my r Se and php Procrasty
n
hours on a le tter ¢ I han ee my fast, aaeee SO
esting: et tt4 Bo abo
pa ng. Three ot dlocees my Packing
ound
ship Suwa Mar a
Bayes! thoes U that is to be Me aboard this gooa
sus two rather tas
speak french which Dicion is that es Japanese
combat. However, 1
se t
to bed at eleven again’ mere? § gout solemnly tt,
Chilly. s, |
contemplate the waters that h
bridge since this time last year. 1 commen us
» 1 cannot help
but wonder what the next first of May will find
me doing and where it will find me residing, I
am now falling into the inane routine of life on
a ship. Play ing deck dquoits and ping-pong and
listening to silly English shout "Jolly Good" when
really the accomplishment performed is nothing.
Still no liason contracted with the Japanese girls
but did get one or two silly giggles out of them.
I am convinced by now that if they are half as
silly as they act they are not worth bothering
about anyway. How I should love to run into a
really good, grade A, American girl again! Well,
nuts with it. To bed at
nuts with it I say;
twelve ten, after losing ie ee ee eight
pence playing black- jack.
upon which point Ey
Up betimes, and somewhat early
though in truth
am beginning to pride myself, ae aoe raat
there is no real justification til a
laying abed un
Pople 20. 000e a to rear impossible . The day
tardy hour little §
board, but towar
hands on a rather dull vo


Played Considerable
Japanese girl] Ding~
Beare the ro and w neene E-pong. one he attrnptic!
Ziways. stoutty!tey, im ping. sue eave mer pagiene
main ~bong . er
nese are particula eae a great ay Ne Shall :
peing Somewhat qui jes adapted to the 122. che Japa-
unusual body contro1.° ! movement dinar aa ee of at ty
Jack with an Irishman othe . © evening 5 Ssess )
tralian. Lost three © Englishmen Peta
Getting a bit Stic oky. ae > an SaaS an huss
3 a0. 5 Sm Bov4 Tit WO I i
é SSeny ot port wee ®
ey i 2 eee ae 2: a Mae ee 5 THz rs 1ak yd _ ng 5
ot ty egomiitiens is se i £86), <a eh be :
oD ba) HOR or ip or rich ee ig ee Se eS By Ga es
bout in t%, .2o i234 ck e i * pee te Ties 28H 4 1
sil sikpect- that in 23° aot ae WELL be Le year HOXB.
% 7 ty
i ae uoy OnLF Geabking 61th the bal enone erryener ba abe
: xe " az rae : rh i ceils Sie Piel te Tad
wiltics , evenowtle BB > Mi Mie LueeTes es By Lie PAZ,
: a ae - st
re Tees a 27 eS a BORK Or Teese Set ote
re me Ty as
bie cevoLation, + pat. PER ane eee
ast ay Gana ae tyaenat? &. ies hs BE
aed 42 fagiend Bae Bren tao
ae pt
aaly publ is


is; ls WS
the Tobably ie.
or Shanghai. I am ably cat es. ea
oo F although I have eee gettin ch the next ship =) Wie
z poats h Joyed this tri & tired of travel< \\ Rae
a e er (|
J ee the food aKa eae crowd te Y_ much, These NV
V Ju
an ght be interested to know thar excellent.” You als Vite
quarter of 3 ar © rounds of : w it Y " Pky
tot tke a ideteeo tee I sincerely howe that Vie
) ib} Ww
enance pe ue Pie here. wares there is no nage
Naples ana aS iar as the sea is c
made the trip in a canoe. The Bont want te I could have
all the way. en like glass
You ean hardly blame
to America. I have been ae Serle aes to return
lieve me when we go in that Golden Gate I Y now, and be-
out one long loud cheer. I am at present at sore see ‘*
very long, and what I hope will be, very oe eae
port on conditions in Europe which I feel qualified to
write now after having spent some five months roaming
about in it. It will take me about a month to finish it
and I expect that in two months it will be in your hands.
I am not only dealing with the telephone business but al-
so politics, economics, and human interest. By the way,
if you want to read a very good book on Russia before
and after the revolution, read "From the Double Eagle to
the Red Flag® by General Krasnoff. I believe that it is
only published in England but Brentanos probably have a
d to me by several Russian
copy of it. It was recommende
friends I have in Paris and also Tanya Price thought
very highly of it. Personally, I found it so fascinat-
ing that I did not lay it down except to sleep.
Cavell was right about the Japanese women. Ags
only are they bet’ eoba looking but also RE hapa
One of J apants representatives at the ae ee and I are
is on board » homeward pound, and his ee three lang-
°0n companions. Twenty years Ad = rushing me up on
uages, dresses iike a million, and is Prieh. | again,
Jong. I have picked up a nice 008” joie, and gen-
rally am feeling fit and nealthy-


pe aS
fi Ds
to have ieee
+ ne Badaind Ae ia @ hotel bili Wee ity
ore system that we apie iat I eh at | time CAL Be
52 epuer ses weight.” Protanio’ idea wnethe sens in the LV eaba
ve 5 Ate
able tw
jars Lee arma Howemep zee hundred doi ae,
ap inte is Zolng to take see amd alsd, see mane {to Bo. ve
‘ tLme » tol la er if he 1 ed to get Vata,
j1 the ° ave had aj ives in tig
gathering mater
Laketer, —-7 Wier et
paper so that by now I h my head I pound out ~~)! }
on ave quite a si
of notes and the lord knows what. “gable feligne py. o
dream. Sometimes I fancy myself as sort of a roving
ghost doomed forever to haunt the cabins of restless
ships, to be ceaselessly packing and unpacking, lifting
and carrying, looking and listening, wondering and hop-
ing. A sort of vagabond apparition that nobody sees
for very long but everybody in the world gets at least
one look at....and chance at. That 1 may someday be
once again amongst my own people seems a sort of hope-
less Valhalla conjured up by the free fancied mind of a
great dreamer and excellent. optomist.
I think it rather amusing and rather typical of :
the extreme politeness of the Japanese, the 1aats ate
a sign hanging behind my back on mY stateroom wall.
goes thus: "While in Port, please do not eg eal ie s
Shoes outside the cabin. They are liable rae a sane
Far be it from the Japanese to use such . ue ant
as stolen. What are the shoes going to a0,
themselves? eerste aS A | Sas
, Heigh tno, have you.a bed for ® ie
farer, Sif? — ite
: ‘Love, ©
Ernest


£2
Rue du Verge
Belgium, Nie
May 5, 1932, Wikre
Mr. Gann: LAMY Gl
7) Med ae
; I really must a
a tell yo Dologize ¢
S| efore Ee you of Ern OF not i
: b my wife and I enjoyed his Aaa) in hee written you 1a ik
ay RP, of how Pity Wd fate
puc i
with him, and what ompan
iin Ps at he did while eae my trip to Ber-
ing he was coming the next day
nad news from Pleven. I met h3 Some two months after
hin I
prone eT tiny oe poe apivuts’ pice th
Oe re cs Cur! ea
together « or us in Antwerp =e were almost always ()
gome Of my Belgian friends! wives chon
me
He went through the fact
the staff here; Mr. White, in arden SEA a arch all of
of how the wheels turn, asked him to attend am on idea
texploitation meetings" where we air in common ie ea
. , ances and discuss methods of trying to sell the Peck
- ple things we have to sell to people who have no money at
= prices below cost, and still make a profit. I think he
, found it interesting, and his comments and questions were
very much to the point. He has probably written you
‘ j about it all.
and they treated us
In Berlin we met Dr. Grabe,
and the cable
| : royally. We went through the S&H Works,
| works of Siemens-Schuckert.
Ernest I found very preoccupied as to his apti-
tude for the telephone business. i: think he is Lnbere ae
but he appears to have a fear of getting Paty to a oes
and not seeing the forest on lee pe ad a a
ing buried under a mass of papers and C&S. ition un-
oF eer ee BO at Cc fully realize the
der his eyes and hands er, an
pleasure iaere is in confronting 4 problem vjections an
nattle to ove Lebar:
Waging an intellectual
yatrnctions » and tases the vari ,
rin ‘ Se corresponda-
pst aeaeaa sade hee of all the pe oat sometimes
ence, conference and talk necessary


g to be an oWvious re
pears nave told him it ig ae hink somewh
poe E work, but when you get aoe like an And Teemays
9
peel? cross, it is just ; and
B a ? aS interes{j Tleht to get your \ he
b=]
@
a
K
[e)
KR
~
ct
[e)
t
=>
apd ance, Spain, WM
: 4,287 > 9 MOrOCCO, etc,
q ie weg many, inpre serene that he SR Ae filled him |
presst0n® wi a oubtless clarify with a age These im-
e hin with a perspective and a knowledge aie and
at many
2
Seer love to have.
Ww ul
‘ I just had a letter from him
4 A or Tr
iifese ; pidpee cece he wes, eae on Italy Poh Soleule nahi
cin ‘ Iste
Me
Both Tania and I regret his departu i
een here for several months. bs ee ese he
rea
With kindest regards to Mrs. Gann and yourself
71d | from both Tonia and myself, believe me,
q Yours sincerely,
Milton M. Price.


qth RCA-CD COLOMBO May y.¢
LC
aNNGOR
aa
arrived Colombo safe Hot Bombay next week , ¢
Ove.
wm me
s , yIA RCA-CD COLOMBO May 23
LC
— GANNGOR
4 CHGO
Arrive Shanghai June thirteenth All well Love (
w
LOY} = «=> = Ot of ag oe


. SINKER po qcouse or
paUe GHAT CHINGEAT,
pear Mr °
I was very glad to
41 7th, and must thank vad te oe your letter of
é Q
Apt very a
which you v
ay in mention my Teports, : Dpreciative
jitical, economic and
f ee subjects in which I taRaneSs Organization
feel strongly that the future erect eee
on a world wide Scale should be madark sig fe)
tained in the hands of, business lenders mand and re~
yowed to come under the control of govern not be al- }
ment control always tends towards stuamediat ee Govern- Vis
I wrote the enclosed article
recent voyages and had it published i ee | i it
view to giving myself a little local prestige: wr ia
circulated copies to various influential Chinese offi—
cials, and I have had one or two discussions with them
on the subject. This of course, serves towards friendly
intercourse and makes it easy for me to approach them
when necessary Of matters affecting our interests. i
From your Letter it would appear that it will be a
some time yet before your son reaches China; I am look- 4
ing forward to meeting him and hope to be able to give |
him some real information concerning China, Japan and ,
it exists today in the \j
, 7
the general political position as
Far East. ck
With kind regards to yourself and Mrs. Gann.
Yours sincerely,
R. G. CAVELL
ENC
RGC:B


iy


papLE-KUALALUMPUR May 31
GANNGOR
LC GHGO
ed position Pet
or no Singapore NY K, Se acceptance
Chicago, a,
May 31, 1933. é
ERNEST GANN
MK
SINGAPORE




in Amer_
the BM
ne conceptions of Seogra |
guts ¢ ethics ang tradi Phical lay. ee
qghe whole attitude or the:
Sople,.
2 tions
jatsonalistic feeling that sometines. aims : » coupled with
to a hago Pee ta
| ‘pon
| | ¥Ih
bth Bea
even that you
, ; are of Amer- 1
jean birth, and you will gain a much clearer and more val i
! Ua= Me
1
prenZy 3 is against any Comparison ,
refore, t ;
The 9 try to forget Americ : , _
y to Orget that .
ple opinion of present-day Europe. Renemhen, lds” ae ‘
sidition to the difficulties brought on by the dere ;
furope, at the present time-is little short of a oe
cauldron of national unrest and wee spite. Europe was
a match-box that required. only a spark to ignite it He June
1914, If it was a match-box then, it 1s a living, breathing,
large-sized box of machine gun bullets now,
Week by week the conditions change. ‘Not long ago, Italy,
1. @.3 (ussolini ’ because he is Italy), was throwing tender
words back Hie forth with France and turning cold looks of
“Now, the reverse is true.
‘isapproval and disdain at Germany.
enough nice thing S to
“enor Mussolini seems unable to say :
| yo are~ busy throwin
stestudded front door
g. pouques back
ire Hitler and while the tw
"Nd forth, France sits upon her bayone


a
id ion a ; ‘
pngland experiencing the ae little more Closely Y
e. S. of an e ° /
nos her Be tae, cn Samed coloni shige vuader, |
. A
- tL a5 ett participate aS much as the Seehof Sy and hence
™ Pz - the gen. y
Ne oral Regard the Fatherlang. bow: ah eral free x V\ 4
BR cae you feel if ae \
: porele? Bs PAO er OCk re fifty=mile. stretcn fo , ig ee 7 Praia:
ippi. River (vor the Length of Lg ts
ee tne yississipp Ty policed it with het actin: Fate
~*8 ony 5 Olidiers and Vaan
ey t the United st ea
io . erefore cu ates in t vine
* n s wld it not? The ny berte?’ Tt would irri bee
: ou, Wo no P ( Lies:
Go. ne tate YOus olish Corridor does the same Hi \!
EF pee ] to Germany, cutting her off from her beloved East Prussia. ea
af e Germans are more than irritated ee
ceiiiak Th es 2 they are furious. And, Way
tg, | they mean to do away with it as soon as they can. To prevent is
hives * HEE i ‘
this Polend has developed a standing army that bids fair to A
~~ oo eee ‘ ae Tig
of Set i a i
. pecome an extremely formidable power. Experienced soldiers ny
Hee scoff at this idea believing the Poles very poor soldiers. rT \
" . think it was just at the -peginning of the Russo-Japanese war
; , 4 “ ¥
ar statement about the
that some military sage made a simil
} s to
sce Japanese troops. Proof of such statements always rene
eal be seen, , } } | ,
ill riituan en be fine Pind of alt. the lonely
ou? ince the beginning of the gundred Years Wars, 4° ee
ee ‘leging in frantic. attempt to get into anole enf ee “'
1 2 push ings start, (and they wost
fall in after her, so that when t


\ *
: : ates EF Present strip
" oe undergro wake
,pough und to Scape wit :
ye gnen you have all the lessep a ny 4
n Bisa,
s A tbe new Central European Paws * 7 ‘
ars > Star a Vt
r grects of the last War ana a Ving to death pea vin i
tb yow] Ln Geaia
: others throats in the ihe eR ing ana Snapping at eee
et € ting Vinal bs
: poet Orr mpion: $0 -SPtead: their teemin * few more acres racy
j ons All of them are Scared to death & beehive popula "4 We
~ : tees bit
oe tion of France who is not arn diene Russia with the Am iciek
is. = Ig? anybody , and Pt | an
4 rs wh K\ ae
ate jen Prope? BE DSU RS GG SO. ethiak aie Can have cn } ey Veh B)
Mss n : Vaaeuhs
Pa : only Sweden, Denmark, aa Norvay ae ne © Cause to b W i .
“at Oy ert om to be lert re
id out of HAN
oe, ° In the future t. tiv va
OTST a4 the Zu heir only playmates can te Hollana ty
JOY »: and switzerland, both of whom discreetly ang Profitably st hi
> oe my ey VAN
“ ; out of the mess. | Nat \
) * 4 ; ih i {
e you b a \
T8D Sum So before y egin, create this picture in your mind. ta
me In May, 1933, Nazi-ism and Fascism are skipping hand in hand Vi
P nde! 1 ! 4 i
ye dom a rose-strewn path. The Republic of France sends her MY:
‘4a &7T HF rer
: ee: eet}
Gendarmes every so often to corral all her new become-of-ages Lie
MOVE ik
into the army. Russia, with the largest standing army in the \\e
Troo2 dj : Lg
? world, adds seven new fighting planes to her air-corps every rf:
dala ox "
| - ;
- time the clock goes round. Austria, paralized by the aopres \
a Sai: } a ®
a ; 7 oe Z al pother e@ \:
I sion has become a. non-entity except as a politic tad \
gags b | “looking for
and is loo
a Spain is on the brink of Communism, and Pol , x.
i Sem 4x, AS stnor the Russian Bear oF
| q , y the
} *>ig enough gun to finish off etthe | wing Wadd 28
7 PGW AU tho gun bee gt be Gods” They
i lan Eagle, whichever may i: ve desired,
‘ 5to Ca to save them, eh as she cal, aY-
: je Yr Poa? jiness as mu
et "Md had better mind her ow. bus


be peace Conferences and
Disarmament Co
hig ~ ~} yor’
Ie Or SO wi
, gerd wee th little o> na
gizewe Bone of them are-po. Stfects (q
$9 a eld for th. om béginnin
“8 | 08 concorne C’esWeek end pin Swit © Purpose Of gy aes
gat Ls ae out: Succeeding 4 Onats go tie cng
£ us e-bi onl Wha
te ce cont ue to underbi a Siem
es a othe: Group, = rat
‘tein, | ANTWERP | =
T8%a, 9 gprs: Wiese
The city of Antwerp is chiefly a cea:
+n ependant y 3 Lehi
Vag ver Sch : haa!
tw on pifty-three miles from the sea, “sha eldt about i Ae
Ty a Feographical position < Wa
the que. It '
firs of is located on the main ee A\l
a ommerce between Europe :
of ¢ pe and the other continents of the
wer ¢ it is the n
Aa ty world; 1 , baa port of the most active population
hieak 7] and of the most industrial region of Europe; it is sheltered
isbiaoo from storms, because of the distance from the sea. In addi-
ar tion to these favorable features it is on the cross-way of |
‘Cae the most important routes, and of the highly developed rail-
By roads of Europe. Yet, one of the surest indications of the
pie economic situation in the city is a view of the forest of
; , : ed-up sh: e river. 1
pag? masts, each pair representing a tied-uP ship in th
£4 ’ ‘ j y
: bi : no time during wy
ts 4 spent almost two weeks in AntwerP, and at ~
is BB. Le 3 val! s it does,
. . ouds. Lying as 5
219 stay did the sun break through the cl bel getty :
/ , rac
, that would at
hardly 4 city
below sea-level, it is
dinary tourist.


Ys
os0F
ph + gpent several days
48
ailing Chicago equipment; Price. with t “Btwerp:-trom
§ he exception of Italy
d
et
© with European, In adai
enn Factery. Literature lik ‘
g tt’ ong
German and possi bly |
9 one §] avic lan guag \ \
in french »
inf
= \P- % Ym to
i. of exist Heb,
, pansiations sting literature Somewhat expensive. WNevy- Wea
ae artheless if it could be Managed. in any way these transls-
, 20 sions ghould be produced. The average agent or sub-agent
OL toy goes not speak or read English, let alone his customer. He
to Dares
1 pecomes disinterested immediately upon seeing that the pamph-
Siemens and Halske, is- ah,
| set or folder is written in English.
Bed sue their literature in all languages, with corresponding re-
im ess 4
silts. As mentioned in the Preface, Belgium is arming her-
watt is? } self along with all the other countries.
M5 aie) : PARTICULARS » : Pre
| | a with |
o Colombo, I became acquainte |
On the journey out t
ie Army, who is at pres-
gege |
| Colonel De Le Chevalerie of the Belgien 1
q ossi-
yas? "tt on his way. to Manchuria to dnvestigate commercial P ¢
»fod bi that newly opened territory.
e to the head ©
enough to wit
4 My Suggestion, he was kind


gt Dye vf,
~ Sar
yest due mainly to the new political powers and ig
“ax eas,
the war, Germany has had an extremely difficult row to hoe Vt MAS
9 ‘ — Ti Tey
and with the possible exception of the Unitea States, the Ae
? iw My ha
allied nations have not been making matters any easier for Aaa
he?e
of Hitler and his National Socialist party, the Communistic aie
"t the present time, Stal
fe
ent of
er OVe
gi
avatt¥e of Atea who wij} othe Ve very aig
es-and simila
ere r ©quipment , ity,
ation to Major Whit , ve Co i "
ad 4 Hise aca © along With a ¢ UWicateg this echaks,
ett fe) unt ic
eooor oP Of ‘Antroguetion Pe SENN) angi tg Pabst
gaavery OFF OnS SHCUL AS euytiy " Tt'seems to ing
Owar
Germany is now passin ; ai bg
& through a State of extrene as Wins ts
It is interesting to note that previous to the advent Pate
faction in Berlin was second in numbers only to that of Mos- | init
cow. They very nearly managed to ob tain a majority in the en
Reichstag and it has been only py the sometimes strenuous iy |
Ae “p ted from yt
efforts of the Nazi Party that they have been prevente i
, . turally a
throwing Germany into a Communistic Chaos. Quite na ‘ Mi
actin n petter than to — i
Nothing would suit nInternational Moscow ii
ba rorces with ner. Although {
aaan for
ve her next door neighbor 30% 5s in Russia are Y
in and his affiliate |


ge
themselve
4pin8 S alm
Ost w Sa,
6?
s problem into
in turkish oRR Semblane
s ©
ough ae exile is the me
Ge gne Internationalen) e
ff >
ine throu
goctr ughout the magi
near from again.
to th aS
pue to the recent agitation over the 3 A \\Uae
gde 2 study of the "Gern ewish problem Ll Ve bi,
e RS ) a at
geavored tO remain as impartial as ae have en- eect
after h ' ow, |
examined the conditions rather thor aving Aaah
oughly, ‘cannot help but be A } i
in sympathy with the movement. In point of fact, th
» the situa-
tion resembles very much that
of conditions in California dur-
the continued
ing influx of Orientals some years ago. The ex3
act figures are not available, but the fact remains that there
are between seven and eight times as many Jews in Germany to-
-™he Germans bear no malice
day as there were before the ware
ountry be-
toward German-Jewish residents who came into the ¢
yn Polish emigrants
fore the war, it is the horde of Southe
undesirable
-At best these- people are an
f Grakow will convince anyone of
n a considerable yol-
lot, a visit to the ghettoes °
that; and. when they begin to lay hands °
le of German business it +


‘ e only. At no time dup
ingothe ing:
) gnere dur Worst of eae
Ld Oe with whom I talkeq
, j
q was only b 8 res
i It 'y Dicking up : Smbling
git
¢ a jews in Germany,
of
sum up, German
To y's in ny Opinion
With a -compar- ek
atively puny army, with a gash eut through hep- all mpar mele
' vo eart, Vai :
yith the distrust of the majority-of the World's powers ham i
per-
ing ne? every effort at reincarnation, she has a battle to
fight, the result of which only the next five or ten years
rill reveal. And lastly, it must.be remembered, that not by
nt
OLS gny means has the Franco-German dislike subsided.
yn | {LEPHONES:
Jos | I had the privilege of spending three full days inspect-
278 ] ing the Siemens and Halske factories end also the Siemens-
sb | Schurkert Works. I met the various important people concerned /
yor } wth both organizations and from them gained a great deal in ¥
0% { Tegard to German caiudifehuadnt conditions. I think a ——
ed q sion of their various plants by anyone not a fully ct
administration 1s not
eineer or directly -eoncerned with the
"orth while attempting.


yb? 4
yienne 1s a lar
4g? of - ge mpire,. Oo for a et
$ ty the
> 2 4
9)
BE a
ggecho-Slovakia.. They are like a body without a heaa
. ea e Pro-
ce what they like, they cann |
da ot find the Proper consumption
facilities. Quite naturally the countries are both far out of
Yee | economic balance. The "Gay Vienna" of old, has Pe Hes a
vortex of despair and bewilderment. Austria is not a poor.
contry. Their present plight, however, due mainly to the. a
ene ae
SSE:
ee poke a
fortunate distribution of the population, has caused them to
7, tesa
gat
pine manufacture and sell at almost unbelivingly low prices. This a
ig ie policy can only lead to one end, ruin. , a
get | It is almost pitiful to 0 into a shop with the intention
rose 3 | looking about and perhaps purchasing somethings ony a
S| turning on the
pet gers preceding you in your qnspection,
on turning about +0 observ
the lights a5 you leave
e one
‘ehts as you progress, and
j ‘lowing you, in turn extinguishine


?? oF some unknown reason
gifficult for me to Understang Ans 2 Teason that a eh
8 3 > Sustria 4 Vi
5 ‘<a | 4b as with Germany . I firmly believe or s Sonstantly 26 SQV y
“EO 7 : en if they a ¥
Pe off js onildish, inane, enmity, Austria 4 — Persist :
Rive. ‘b med fo
_ te F 4t, a union with Germany is those T certain
s such a union, however, Presents inm
yhoP*
ense difficulties not
sonsidering the Austrian Prejudices, It would mean in the
35)
ede
guch an action violated the Versailles Treaty. There ig
pat
f ope Nazi-ism is growing in Austria ang in
nis
may take over the Government,
rure
the near fu-
If not an actual one, this
t least mean a basis for a union between the two count-
yould @
Although I am not in accord with all the principles of
£1eS
ism, IL am firmly convinced that to rally to his banner is
Hitlerism,
8
they now
f taxation cannot save them. Taxation, such as they
level o
ideration)
1s are under cons
higher proposa
uaintain, (and even
an t V Vv w of the present
nly one thing: eventual o erthrow 0
can lead to o
r of Communism.
‘overnment and consequently great dange


ge
eon 0 ia Colom, T
4p?
gxeellency Y. Sug eee
t S- Montono
oun
p38?
onel De La Chevaler ae
gol
: Ggrabe
per
g. W- Moore
vv
ht
yf wrig
ferr Schlacke
Herr Maximillian Esterer
err Buscher
y. Rene J acobs
aj. Burningham White
wr. C. A. Samuels
ur, Fo Re Baldock
ir, Joseph Jansens
Mr, Milton Price
lr, Rudolph Stehlick
R, Jones
L. G. Tifft
cele SD) Deopi
(Bele;
MChuko StatePPesentatiys
ing Dip
$5 factory inf pelt Tele~
erp
)
(Belgian Government Telephones)
(Editor of the Malay Mail)
(Standard Oil of New Jersey -
Symatra-dava




_ when experienced me
Not only d it put yo
fit forgive WY eet not fair es A
the matter in this 1
at teimming
at SCOn" thw
WY effor;y is direc’ letters "
at an Vuelbhetcr ?
NA
rer Wwrot ate pak mi
ve and e my 1 as [ h Ssed,
we nee for the past ten nage Ene aA eect letter®Ve bee
yoy er eore we reach Colom d stayy ce@ingly oye
g° Pte however, due ita tnt The pass have 5 endless A
¢eGL° Somehow the deo to the Sayles not venar \ui
Seem to fasant fo)
on boar session, the sun
es* and the moon comes Sets in the tomas bY one in ena.
shiP * Day by day we ae a se neighbor MS of the
Gea uibroken, CxCePt by ah occasional pase-like glassy
soccer, blow wipe Ghats the shade Se atig
g i tet aint, Dae het Hee name oe
and P
ingly spoils first one shirt and then another
I really don't know what to talk about because
hy
st letter Gescribed everything y
la and since there has been nothing but Me nea seit
I am enclosing this letter in an envel
things that I think might be of EARbest to you 7 Fa
getting extremely anxious to get to Japan. I think the
first of September should see me back in Chicago but I
have long ago given up prophesying my whereabouts as every
time I do so, I fail to fulfill ny prophesies.
You mentioned in your cable that I received in Rome,
that thére was a job waiting for me in the eect anys Per-
haps I am wrong, and this is no time or place ies Seer
it, but I do not believe ete oe Sart See I think,
n are ein 2 Ta-
pegizetehing things * eee far to take esentetion would
ie peeenhore chee aes ae Lowest gcreyona 4 be
€ obvious to everyon ration.
u and the adn vould make
light, but, if you will
things extremely difficult 20F nin about it 2
er on us. fhe m , is fo a
e away from Theo. Gary pomp ehy 0 Ren me the
Mentioned before, t
oe doubtless your advice 20 wanter | we vers ts consider
st course to take. that you would packs
tude at this time 5° ight pefore 1 got


S hap_
ST See tp,-° W olg 14
er fro then fe on
wepering Me MY Old jop back aganmond mee aan ny the
ofept= * Nat ally 7 couldnt ¢
I shall probably sa
11 fron Yokon
argely depende at direc
gees a ea poe a bie ler a no <e ee clas ge (
I yer few days. I am Le to look about [os pt Bawali :
os wood for a few days also, as I ros i
Hol y and also think f] Shoulda & those ette
¢ner lifornia just as much ag [ Should see 0K
of Ca As far as I know Dom, lam 8oing to retum sie
a es Pacific, and will POSsibl
sout a day to see Mary Gary if sh I certainly
oe that the Nagerac is in the water when I am there,
Well, I am hotter than blazes and an
going for a swim,
« Write your next letter Care of Cavell,
So long ~~
Ernest.


peat Mother and Father, corsnte Pendny ;
Now it is almost ats
spores again? Once again 1
ens time with a vengeance.
onsoon or what is left of 4
P'man freigh
ould please only a modernist
eight Sua
abl at
po i? ihe *,
world go bouncing about from Wave-crest to naee a
-crest with- ai be
out so much as a pineapple in their yawning holds. I haa ie :
A
get into Colombo har- nak (
pour because the Monsoon was kicking up in such fashion as
to wait thirty-six hours for her to
to make entrance through the breakwater impossible. But I
shall get on and tell you in as much detail as possible of it
my nine days spent in Ceylon.
Some humorist, a long time back, chose the island of :
Ceylon as thé residence of Adam and Eve before the injudi- :
cious lady elected to go browsing about and biting of that i
were
which she had no business. The line of reefs, that :
s of modern dredgers would \
it not for the unceasing effort aa \
is calle ‘
connect Ceylon with the southerp pip eee iat
dly the convenient exit ey
"Adam's Reef"; it being suppose 7 the
e helpmate Bve brought
tl :
Chosen by one Adam when his 1it I am not in bait
ally, Bin
vite natur i)
f red by he
i 1
\
:!
§
}
¥
y
Wra upon them.
Sioned g and attractions offe
2 position to know the glorie


VY
r
cet Be Caer
Re
O would have foung aMous
x Some 56
, Let neith °
nor
erce persuade you t
coum hat the
tv
ery poor harbor brings
sos from every
it ship country in the worla :
» The harbor
ie tone
ad and is tr
pete-noir of half the maritime dagustire sean, is the
2 e ‘seas. Th ‘i Wh Ghd
itself is as unint ; e ih
city eresting as only the British know Bee iM ivy
city. .
to make a ty. The hotels are pretentious from the outside |
ang next to uninhabitable on the inside. With ehé éeveste eta.
i on Weal He
of key positions, practically all the work is somehow accon- Wine
. Ra 2 “ (i f a
plished by the natives of Ceylon who are without-a shadow of nh
ath
a doubt the stupidest people the world has ever know, It
takes anywhere from five to seven natives dé idesougl tan the
simplest of tasks. They ghetiosdaag , smelly, dirty lot of
Beside them the
brigands if I have ever laid eyes on any.
little short of charming.
inhabitants of northern Africa are
my tack of
ntinued to express
But I must get on, as if I co
ve and pritish) I
and mines They are worth
Opinion of the natives °
should only be wasting your eae
fot a mom either. e
ent of gteaming prillianc
I arrived in Ceylon narbo


Fe.
should have p
a al of “S88 beauty
of re
peat 7° ret that 7 leg
f the wt t
eee Re ae Maryn
é e
yes for a go
, wit §0o0d Voyage to sin away wy ‘
fe
ide in
your’ = Ps “ Pick-shay a amt
Cony ic very ie HF aS
yp
f interest to
Slombdo,
run
ations » I dropped aroun
yop d to the
lo
‘ ntinued on with th
co e "Suwa Ma
fice
he X, |
e was to se ana Lace
uot ther € in the isl tae Ger as to just Whee
e next also wan ee reves
jne on th boat out of the See ze ted to get a eee ) } In qh
1
F |
inally I decided to ( Hi Ne Yj
mpoyt; ("Boy" in Ceylon or India describes mee mera s
fro the age Of seventeen to aE at toes servant
siple to get along without one in either Bey _ ae
jargely due to this "boy" that my trip to Ceylon proved Sar
all to be interesting. He showed unusual acumen for a native
9
actually took a bath every day, did not chew bettle nut, and as
far as I could gather possessed no lice in his hair; an unusual
set of attributes indeed in a native. In addition he spoke
arranged to meet him at
passable English so l engaged him and
hoon the next day.
our car raced
tations, then cocoa-nut,
a settle-
Through tea plan
ay to Anuradapure y
Over the roads. We were on our W
ght pefore
edge of the
nent on the/jungle where we should spend the
Tt. took us two days of con-
Plunging into the real wildernes* sar and pro-
forced t°
apandon the
ait rest-houses
‘tant travel before we were |
a day we reached 4 ®
"Sed on foot, On the thir


Sip
gen "boy" would eo), Ping uy 3
e back. H Bee
e r
to collect th
e e
186 MeCessar, @ gong qd
ie yuck" and swell oy, number
s
santness",
e, Master
jg tames » but Sometime tp
Sublen Mt
st, I was wonder enon > “they
gd ‘ng if this W * better gor
as Merely an Plenty
&xcuse to
hire
4 lot of his fellow-men, 7
Tue, I Was
sixty wiles of tortuous travelin
8»
he + “A
two Tip ab L-
ence every yeorse- The heat was oppress rit
© and the pers-
piration ran in little rivulets down my chest
and back. I
examined my camera to ascertain that it was in wo king
r order
and having done so, sat back in my chair and solemnly congrat
at-
ulated myself for being one of natures greatest dam fools
for ever having left my native heath. This stuff was fine in
I thought, but the discomforts attendant on the exper-
books ,
ide. I heard a baby
fencing were often a bit on the heavy s
and reflected that the ne
ether in the nursery of
1 of a jungle
w-born “make
cry in the village pelow
similar protests all over the world wh
an American millinaire's home °F the filthy hove
ruminate on yhat wy friends ae Nags
: i ae this moment when wy
ewing sad-eY
native. I had begun to
ous places in the world might be :
a handful of pebtie-°8
ed na-
boy approached with
lives, - They were a
1t woula be a gross erzor
Nearest Banyan tree


tj had been warne
at
walks and had ant
Ley
Pat
1e “his
gh
g nots however, count
ed on
eq
he b
“ating eS Work
a th {
th dreds oe vot a
goons Sh capa Prevent zane ang © Insegy i
a ees W Plereing jo, oe that ;
i that T to th
Could © Jungle, I ie
ma
N th t
sergeants sen poer ie gOing, ry © Shades op Wy old Ee
Cartil driqy ——
ere grudging along beside me ¥oNe ’ Y Wished one tH a
r m
ar UTE A) |
now that I had begun. To admit defeat E mecenia Ty on mies |
or these
thin little natives who were carrying heavy loads while I
8 Care
ried nothing but my fat self was something I could not bring
myself to do. On and on we went the only sounds being that
of bare feet padding on the earth and my own lungs obviously
Oecasionally a snake would rustle in
wheezing their last.
would screech in the distance. At
the grass or a jungle fowl
th black faces and white
the edge of a clearing some monkeys wi
1d like little old
My boys, knee
: | howled
beards looking for all the wor TS ek
ffending heads.
ch of yellow
w many miles we
sh water af
dom deprecations on our uno
me over 2 pat
deep in slime carried
nask him ho
lit a cigarette and carried on-
have done", I instructed ™Y nus
pegun, then:
t
bie poy « He say four y
er |
lastern, wetd hardly


6°
Eirgates, © ts Poked
otne™ pongye a tye minutes,
; glower « The heat Was
: ssn to close my fist.
4 Dp.
, yest arithmeti€ in this heat Sua
a E S { ° u deny.
, , s th Balingy
jroomins? Wa is some Cheap opp
“ 7. questioningly .
Se . ~ 9 pi
pegad to walk again,
th
ing in my ears. We walked on and I was just neg
0 flat mi
iity | ticularly difficult bush when the boy ahead of ee
cocked his head like a pointer. I watcheg him ant wondered Me
Suddenly he pointed to his ear and then Ne
I strained my ears.
yhat was the matter.
pointed ahead.
|
There it was again} Dum- if
) ¢dun-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum. Hardly audible. Sometimes \
o almost impossible to hear. Yet again, dum-dum;dun-dun-dum-dum-
| cated
i
dum-dum e ,
| And now if you think that I am going spoil a perfectly
evening, at
} 6008 story that should amuse you some long winter cai
wor 4 . Were they
A ; this stage of the game, you are a BO ally there? Were
$ 3 or : e .
: } ‘hat I heard beating? Were the mile oa
tbh. ae a ie
did
t got theres and how
those af
, Bet back to the rest-house? All
unfo
| she tale
: Aswers to which I shall reveal and


% 1
: gd wi
arly P A228 “2 Your Ve
TY b
f° toes all oc
Byea Po*? mashed do
one Of your
ath most €xcel),
af the fire is right Baa
I
off
eps van
p jn salary, I Shal] r ve Just r a Cigars,
sé veal to ei veg
you th a double
or ten white people know, "The Which
ngapore for Shanghai,
Ha | Pn Me Cavell. The thirteenth of July shouig
Toy } to lea and by God's grace 1 should
ea Be irt eenth of August. These dates are,
be home by the
however, dependent on a
Seu ae f things and I cannot really tell you when I shall be
Bations 1 sack again. £ have now been so long away from America that
F srty the mere Sight of the stars and stripes gives me a thrill, I
FALO" have given up trying to see all the world in one lump and so
sb : did not go to India. Ceylon, and the Malay States are very
20 nis similar, however , anal 2s I want to spend what little I have
in a stink-hole like India, I am
>-a0> | left in Japan rather than tion
F {ncarnatLone
leaving that charming country for wy next re
e a sail on the Na
gerac
ood luck and tak
So good-bye and g
| for he,
Your sony,


gee s
x -
Ps Mother and Fathen.
it 18 so hot tonign: that ;
p10?
JI thought thi fy
yoad 8 a Zoog time ing n
p is out Of the Qesty vempenas
On a
unfortunate + © st
pnis ime 7 am on art
apore to Hong: Kong,
letters keep ask VaEAN
your ing ms to Write rT Riki)
This i
In letters, I eam Vata?
gorry to s8y is Impossible,
, : that Wf
7 have only space to Zive you Zehenaie IT have time to write »
mpressions, Tt is Xu \j
ble for me to deserip
possi Sb" SBN eels
J movement I make
e You
411 just have to wait until 7 “
Ls i get home for that. Then I mn HN
, ie
pegin at the beginning and go right through to the ena with you \
I can tell you much better than I ean write you in letters at
is
besides I don't like to spoil my stories. This /nardly what you
might call a "Trip to Niagra Falls", and I cannot relate what
happens from day to day in letters. However, the stage developed
in sib? a fair memory for happenings and things and I ee you
g last see you
that I shall leave very little out when I at lon
“i hat dam
f disease since I came out of t
I have been one mass 0 3 prosy on down
jungle. Tam certain :
and am constantly scratching lh hp eg pe that as 1 meyy
; take a lot to get me! into a eg ea, Y ought
teeth are still in my head, °°


@ «alittle of the literature and fundamentals of the people. Usually |
q : ge jast wr
q PAZ why iting to
3 50° to Penang),
gor
z
went
g shen 7 7 Peta tg
Yo
in 4M, (on t
Which r he G
qe peen visiting ® frig Slog:
Nn
gutomatic Agents and pr 8Pore
©Sente
a
4p?
# given MC o They Were Ver
h J ni
was t Ce
at shere © see in the : to me
gerd place I visit,
@
UMe +
hat this
Fan from it,
i
Although
= BA
then set about Teading up on the place
tam going to visit. I study the Geography, the trade » the ports
i i 5
the products, the politics and government, talk with people who
know the country or city, and as far as possible, try to absorb
by the time the boat or train arrive I am theoretically ready to
ihe! 2%
see the country. ‘Then the work begins. The first half-day I
: . locally famous, 125 what youll find '
y and convinced myself |
just as
generally go out to see what 15
Having done my dut
thing I saw and
ou can't do
tn all the tourist books.
‘ ous
that 1t is just the same as the lent ie bate y
Se , a the countrys N ty
ew nding and Beawirine
‘py st?
5 1bey® |
Y ay Pr ter of introduction


’
y to some one in the
Plag,
> aN 8
tr
In Ying to se
“et labiy ie
pao till evening tr
poor? live.
89
arts of every town, eee logy ?
of” tem all cat She
¢le 878 ai+ MY own a
yt Whion Won
possess no introduces, ks
nore é ore g
G 9
, the err er manager and pe
Put
ie Ufertebiy just aroung the eo
rney
else that '"s
ono bhi DE "just 8round the ;
seo WOT over hergin the China sea
Orner" |
3 > Your py
oA Shteoy
rynat 'S he doing running &round to babe oe 3
oP ae t = 4 5 ; ay
n 7 Ms |
as” Am I not right? Didn't You just jini O° way to 86e the i
at;
q > at
boar minds? Well as a matter of Tact, that least in
S just why I M i
GO t hat
to learn about the world. In most European %. i o then,
tropieal countries, a large Proportion of the busines
up Ss me
7 directly to their favorite bar for a drink before going ass
Oey dinner. It's really wonderful the way one gets acquainted over
: ha abar, and one thing leading to another I usually have an invitation
~ “J totmeh next day 4f not dinner that night. the man msy be anything |
Be from the newpaper editor to the local manager for Kelvinator op
LIOR
é
ES thsrrotet but hé is usually in 2 position to give me a pretty g00
yoyuse of yk
q {ton of local conditions. T have Learned a great dea T | a
de some fine
7 lly have ma
Ms rather crude system and inoadente” g they are OF
estion
how full of Suge 0 hele
“eng
i]
‘ t ‘heir ane,
It is surprising
: 9 out °
wht ig really inhereat Sag hostess and ot
real this 43 no


30 4n the Case Of é
i
q
iy always take me ee et Snt
yp? Sir b
do
0
gnett Bappome again Some
thing. I su
spon PPOSe that b
¢ to the fullest,
ya8° <
er but I su Tta send
on Di PPOS® there ser nly 44 8 Ne
pr iP i
t yee
Peposore rome thing terig *Fen te tine tl
am vf
ps I can get a few houng Solng to
perbe ome ¢
Vv
ores I shall have a little 5
Sat of my é
seein him very much.
cca ane. Peeve Lied. feed thos a enka, gre Lt
© without
spending anymore but on the other hana { feel that every cent I
nN
have spent has been well-spent and the value derived thereof
cat a 4 I am enclosing a few pictures in this letter that ought to
q y
‘oful OF 4 make some pretty good enlargements. You ogght to have a pretty
As oF i good collection by now. The little camera is holding up pretty
- i
f repair are my
well bat one thing that is falling in sad need 0
ocks that are not full
Slothes, I am hard put to it to find any ®
an BM “holes or even a shirt that has its. full complement ; es:
p alt : "mother didn't bring me up to be 4 seamstress. a ex ee
4 Mt wote a letter to crandmother and ae “anh the world
oe like it, I tried to tell them a yittie
vocessfuls
afraid I was not very ®


pious aeceases Which
a
qnalized by the 8
gand the Hezema ig
Baer?
’ “
/ — u
e B ,ention® is also rendereg e atio
gt vue
over~abundance o
io 4 “Poked Fo
n relugate matters, on
re
_puner tasty affliction known
: c&
*
Stween x
CZena s,
Ch 1 and,
Olera is Cause
€@c
Ourage to Choose Eczema,
®
la
m fat enough now,
but doctor Says Papa spank if
much as take one eeny Weeny Scratch, Same gentleman prophesies I
i 1 be completely recovered err we reach Shanghai,
/8econd and less annoying disease is the far-famea "Hong Kong" feet,
isn't everybody that can get this, One acquires it only after diligent
yMindering about the proper, jungle and wading in the properly polluted
8 for hours at a time. After which if one perspires enough you've @ :
things ‘
Never having been one to do
ttle bored with
+ 200d chance of acquiring it.
I became a li
™8Y, I have a truly glorious lay-out. ip'
ities, The ship §
hor
ter While though and took it to the proper autho
| this,
ake a week-end
a providing my
to er all an
F * Md I are becoming fast friends ov in upper
oing to t
fon't tai ofr altogether we are ©


‘ ec, ll in all
z ® psavanced leper ang 8 things
<< \y ; yeh
7 - DBe,
yw me around is Simply Sep
(6) &
Sty . : gold
The Way the Vv
8s my deap.
et out your littie M2D ang Lies
a &
I'n Going to
Then I'm S0ing up to Peiping,
CCa! fa bie Manchuriang Still weep
a : by this time Hy 8 i
pigtails. erage Caat amer
th slant eyes, I'am Going
etly to Yokohama by way of Antung,
‘ ea: ire
> ”
Fugen, ana Kobe,
he other hand,” l-am-not fea up,
$e
a
Hae fee &
I shall Continue on from Mukden Wy
se and Pi
teecelike that? From Yokohama ea.
ety 8
irls |e)
Ng 1 to Tokio and perhaps Kyoto and have a look at the Geisha ¢
-— but
i =) CCRC OCC EOE
a. ght to be in San Francisco by August eight, enayway
one ] OV.
2007 ou never can tell,
ger 4 La q H
D y
me why I go
Nae And don't ask me
6 thi but it does make good writing. 3
“ting, bu
an over
¢ rhaps I have
nd I don't know myself. Pe
Maing &round in jungles,
de
i] in ny pbloo
! -aroundus,. 1
mount of "curiostus Look-aro


SN ps Wes —
ae?) ® ( Vo? apanghad 236 Sage é =
ae i yoo Jinkes plouse at
me 4 i} id SHANG .
“4 SA i ; CHINA
ee. J
, % Gann Pgh 193% “6
ew x. :
Se aa, a, ne
Se, see | | a vay
ata ie, git» ey
an a) ve I am now experieng; Bony Ae
. dy Me i , which) Be China, and at bine Or Pourtp, eae
Wa ie ee x One eae bu eeta Prom anothes nt Moment am greetdence a Can't ji
™ "i, Mh a 4 oft. 1ig ia Ps ag © You T ° The task iis pe fo) Separate in ms
ae Bar p liticay a rosress both in
a ea with the very king 28Sistanog Peas Ctttione
4 even at this earl. at and advice of ¢
a ples ; Ss to get 8Ptain Cg i
Ly 8 they are now in this Chaot e SOmewhat of Vell’ I have
te: ay gs eed has been almost Constante co Ty. He iia ee oe of
of te oats th 2 y with 6 z) cnoug to meet
by ping to Ceine various + ns that ieee ‘ag, the moment JT landed,
hy fed from Nanking yesterday ea Metihim th pe cen wn Long
iy ae ind conversed, both Socially and in busi ons way Pe ope
yo Oe of the Chinese Ofriogs. Lass inspected t30°¥2 With the entire ve
"Epes ) : ne : S morn
Be erscend ens yet, E ave my naseeseet hes prepenea ona” fotege
sav I understand © Various Situations and Tamificatio b 3 I =
mon. Ay you a full report, Setter Léhaii i
# if
Ee Se ee ee nal movements I have taken an apartment at a Mi
ream nable rate © same building a8 Captain Cavell. Not oni i
My ty this enable me tobe e Oser to him but I am
Si est
a RLS
me |
p the atmosphere of life
ibly the next ten days.
and then up to Pekin,
ld be sufficient for th
gail for Japan,
to accompany me to Japan as he
i that you arranged for me
I am planning to.take the SEP OMMO bape ae wen ivan eel etre
but in all probability I shall no Or sopshortyit.aill save sou te
vase I should run a hundred dollars ically, and mentally 1 am |
Be of cabling to Japan. F Bee big ike a ee
the presen to Vancouver, |
ie a ae Pie aon I will, as you ee up the coay
” se ime =2 iy on landing in Sm peed Serre ea
to Vens PS meee cet ea bo Chigese 2 Hig fart answer to this |
ike to step off and. see Me» af fice at Tokyo, wi |
 8ddresseq c/o the N.Y.K. Line
: rt to me
like to impart |
i which you may d in that letter, |
eee ence meget een
4 4cifie crossing ’ :
| : the fullest ex-
; the boat to : to ric-
enjoying Ul " 43 confine
; -I hope Ou and- mother are e bageat "ni ding 1 oO Messrs, Adams, Gary
“8h my onde regret is that my Pp gt regards t
Angt ,
be there
°ad of yachts, Please give Dea to you and mo
’ Harris, and Benoist. All my
Love,
'aRNEST"


Shangnasoad
Chi
pERSONAL :
ene
Mr G. Ke Gann, 3 933
chicago.
pear Mr. Gann,
and looking fig ee orn ed here
file et aAThoelitag. mahal
fie in the same bui14, tainea é Alone’ so :
these apartments fixeg Bes BY own E apartnec, leay-
galt phekehe 18 mow instaises very confortgpe ageress of
ment which, of cours » With ¢
sense of belonging to’ fives nin ai in hig.” the re-
ver wna *
cheaper than an hotel. e Place, _ Y WUch more one part
so that he has everything he yepattments r is much
me whenev s @ food servi
see er he wishes, and he can wander Soataa
does, aS a resident of the Frene
great help to him in understandi At th
e
Long and a little later on
to-
take him around our exchanges
, I have put him in the way of getting some rid-
ing and thus, one way and another, he will, I hope, obtain a
comprehensive grasp of this city and its environs. With re-
gard to his future plans, when he arrived here he very badly
wanted to travel up to Pekin and from there, through the
late war zone, right through Manchuria (or Manchoukuo as the
Japanese now call. it) and so through to Vladivostok but 1
have dissuaded him from attempting such a journey.
it iI S ort end try an 1 val-
result in being captured py bandits. All zeeouplisted : ste
ue ey, even ; to Nanking an
a | alee ‘Wag a arranging to tare Behe interior.
will there arrange that he sé re now is probabl
He may go to Pekin but to 6° he Japane
Waste of time and money. ot all %
take Pekin the Chinese remove :
tled the palaces and emp lees J Be
down altogether and the ha se qheat 0° a
of their former splendour,


ur Ge Ke Gann.
cont inuation.
ekin is almost empt
tpinkk Ernest will ad eg a
The pr
give him as much exce oe Co
governed by the Nankin ye
Sean ubionetPedly
ro ers :
Ene at my disposal | ang, 3s DOssible be. 8 given hi
that country thoroughly eS him to see. bisingse oo Bare ||
.. 1H and e san
‘ Toe
} In conclusion let me sa
y that I like Ernest
very much, that everyone I have introduced him to likes hin,
and that you may rest assured that when he leaves this part
of the world he will do so with a real knowledge of the con-
ditions as they exist today.
Yours sincerely,
R. G. Cavell
RGC: FP
ee j
ag Sits a eee Oe a Be ae ae


. aC. Crage,
4 . Paul.
Tt has been Some
time Since rahi
y to drop you aC ave had more
r about Six
OW less than
h
. ; through St. Paul
I am planning ‘Meat cee ee chee
O Chicago, and shall, p ou and I
home t talk with y
on ity way I should like to have a havea cate eae
a day eos Sa arrange it Bre! ean, any of it for a
sure we not ready to hen it is ready
“cal, but a2 yet, I am not neady Hawi aae ee
- 2 pr & COPyys :
friends ly send you
ainly °
ec make very highly
_¢ism you
Ai ne @


ey pane
® wai he}, i 43
CLG VOGEL’ weds ih
bg ‘sie.
ae nes hess
Sete tease
ae ee
er Dark,


peat
in g
al Op lett
wn Strangh? that 4 er from
on y ° tw you
ts will let my deser} ,aton of nor ot Possipi, on Which
we ti fe) yl er “
o men On, as POmMant+= n of ue Ont, y acut
grebia» the Spices of cn toe é Co © obxerya_
ave bu a ew rie co
the Shee Arabia ig ies to manePPing Ze coat of
pever 1a2@ ©yes, nor for 4, Nothing vo these -veePore. 1
many » many Miles of nothi hat Matt yo is
yptellyicé 5! UStsclags piace oedh,
ust over the hills, adds to : a open
tion for SoS Mer home, S attracti ton, somewhere
re "splicy”, I grant you thatno catlea Pepa gin
ards without Slipping on _— I
deed an agile person, As a
to
sa
can only say that there is damneg littie: of i ngapore, 7
With my pla ;
ast minute) for tre guukee
China (**) and then shail ZO on to Japan. Coreen ere in ‘
s
oing to join me there about :
pee nmoukine, Bet nate meek after ay arrival. He
to go to Hongkong on business, I have yerreatee for him
to how much time I shall spend in Japan. It will largely a
pend on how much I like the country, and from all I hear I ¥
shall enjoy my stay there very much. However, I think three
weeks or @ month will satisfy me. After that time I plan to
sail directly to San Francisco. The fact that the steamers
call there anyway will allow me a day in Honolulu. From San
Francisco I want to take a few days and run dow to Los Ang-
i and I
up the coast to Vancouver, ant e offices Fa rere
Shoes 3 Abeveey Oheae>: ters of in-
oF 4 ee would write me the neesne tS eb
troduction, and make any other arrene
9 hall ee pioy T all very
aul. OW»
if not two, with i situation
tO spend at least @ eer33* of you and these in Chicago. In
have a long talk with bo nd the
ng pefore I cades possible & ae Tee ay
Straight in my mind soht
Wiew of this I thought tt ™ cig then ge OL, our homes
Jagerac to Milwaukee: any you ‘
: d accomp ‘ aaditiona
Stead of Chicago, 3 pexin - look 8
ng v0
("Already changed! Am 8°
Note) , ,
June
Mother and Father, SHANGHS? 1933, "


will enable
go3* ould give iia
Hee qT face Mr. Adam
fo 14 like at lea
pours. Presting wie? 06
eery £0048 way out. YOUr aps’ arpgtts {n°
(peshane ee ee han tacteel, Foatt, tre? twons
£0 Ey ao Adams Pare 14 cru
fin Ot wa
ayik with you first. ,6° do tp are’ idea t
of he sub ject anaes San Frp, ete ae have of me
on the ° am fee ; my ving
baa ait Roars dirtige 78 Xtreme; ©
seeing aes insteaq fe) t for ely
bee daa thence TOOLS. gee,
had better take bebly
e
powe »
my present Opportunity g
@o
4 yery good one, that h your id
4 see the Phillip'ts maacs a ee Montreal’ gon! think it
4 sort of thing that it is pegqv® DOW done go
me to go to an office, meet thee an expert ats of this
see what I can see. As a4 ts various inportan ne with
plete my view of all factories 2 =“ @ visit will com-
exception of Australia ana délithorente’ offices with the
has been giving me long ang very f Tiea. Captain Cavell
into ear Bigone ct He has not Bouh as Bag ees On going
me to, bu
onty breed v0 "show me, "very much ae°you ‘weula do, aunt Gn
situation is.
I am very glad to hear that busi
picking up a bit. This seems to be true of BaaeEe tree
place in the world I have visited, with the possible excep-
tion of Austria and Spain. These two countries, however,
are so much dead wood anyway, and there is something more
basic than depression that is ruining them. I am gradually
developing a taste for Chinese shark's fins and bird's
und, and under
nest. e really no a,
They ar y a a
t so bad as they so
ield a
lir, K, T. Long's careful ing to me
mean chopstick. -.
tter an
3 up your le sume
have just picked UP ouver. I presume,
; eturn vie ye yancouve? che
see that you advise that I ° to
you mean caine directly from rome he gehevs? ewes on the
. Possible on the present tithe boats that ships aan
| ea as Uns re :
Tolsneey Sete paces ce do not Otpat : |
the Chichibu Maru and Tatsute
88n Francisco line.


30
I am aboy
trea
temply cannot be Shay
3 prebeth is! pools that r ¢
to EE bh Ds Rog} ae throy ed tot es ry bug” You . .
wer’ would be Leviggtler yen Cu Ally 1r 2 80n ris
a 1S) 5
a The reason ji, t ®Pant NOt en “Lfop Stong - te
gOsustry oursely Bat wee tn Worje the @ the dug, If 7
jndus Cry hat J oso The dug? nop Pla As pi teg ties.
ng like what [ Woulg haya tty You fay
i untries. [I PTOMisg . Ve. to
yaKe) » or whatever it ia Mi
r j al of hontOzen o4hoth-
. enjoyed 2 Out M or Sr
en time, and Aged Ltt] Pr ty fiy,8in, or ity ai buy
a apne Harbor. Ure by ho Adds, Jel Salary ts
oe in By. baggage, Td me GOW you af, the Cot Me tron
ave She . have haq Teport © belj
losses Sustained my Safar None 80 f OSses 7 Leh,
fuse to hang on to my fp ght
I am glag You ep
tainly cost me an awry) ioe fae Morro
er if bring back girt, are w
tail as you Can go to any large
very little more, buy Practically ay net sc
By the way, is the encloses beer labie ee clone world
you, or me, for that matter. a
Well, this is Snough for this time and 1 hope
that you will excuse my dictating it instead of making it
a hand-written letter » but What with trying to catch up
the Chinese situation, S0ing through ali Captain
1li's files, seeing a little pit of China itself, and
be i a spot of sleep now and again, it is totally in-
grabbing for me to sit down and write a longhand letter.
gee to you both and it won't be long before the
Muc
family will be together again.
Love
ERNEST
NOTE:
ADDITIONAL janer party Last
d e
11 gave 4 ded by
pte caret, est re
Minister of Vaan” =
had met Mr. Chung, tsin,
of Nanking and a he wo aint
along with him, an and acd
thing of the cOUnEry» Chune
toms, and so forth-


Ye
Ly
jp
go?
cer
cu.
gen
of
r
ppat
fort
Po str emely
a a all their 7
ghe,.
a ey that with
cae Abe count
YT ie dine weath
rant cations,
nave
pen a native ch
i
ere are no Poss
eee a bodyguard,
car
it i
ent city and
ona to have thi
vexpect Mr. Long
e ane
going to take
pH SE
dae great
He is
or
and
obvious. Aly
et Pekin it
ossLONAL NOTE Contry
py
his
s
tha
i
Should b
nese
bilities
© ex
tt
of
Might b
kidna


si cece RST


; oa
a Did tg DF ca salle
Pd


Although th 2rbo
| on ee “nd a
q yg Ore Teel Jey ran tig
4 pight have it), Teal, au t
] tne only town of any diye ;
q pike most Britisn “Oloniay
ing in that Parente unas type
— a
ny opinion,
to the fact that
10n ig Tube
th Ht
spon Shr Ver Tout pails co
3
tivated being Useless jingay
are hot Cul.
9 The Ma jors
ations grow tea, Z
Cocoa=j=nuts,
the way of PL A
- X's for the large
ly does not offer
estates,
the opportunities to be
oring territories, =
Ceylon certains
found in neigh.
One matter that I should like to impress here upon
the reader, more than any other, In doing
any kind from pencil sha ees
ee As Ps ae ou 4
Zuropean countries, it m


a little bit
is
jt
i
£2
: 2,
i)
y in
Ns dS SFemenagy,
410M;
a
ul
4 h haps, When
With the This
*Tereng. boty
as a eoBheee oF é
| oa metho ay STP ara tte
4 c the white. fp, Some of Ont es da
a of y powerful, the Eurg bea
rer
are x principle, In most. .
a ces Ae growing More
i
tiv
ne
Dow bags ies eae
far, It
f time before #
tter o
a ma
pe
lll on]
© mn lority he Civiy
ing thi
a1s in India. “Wid he Natives Ting
ci
a fter considerabi¢ trave
a.
: ge
: cau
7 3 ation,
2 : ir buying educ
150) % can
Et ig; “nonsense to Bay ant
. dor ary
cant, marke
% represent an impor
fe)
does. n
ative
the n
ue,
in vali
r ten cents
e
s ov
icle
¥ 4 ee : ¥ my ‘ee The
biden he
Sn poke Excel st :
Lephone or ae ip veer Z
set te “wahied aan
a hend ta eh
: cot a of :
ever, a ‘ery


jands» is generar,
he Federated Malay
ynder British Protect, bee
jneula and are SOle ely
“Pen
their commerciay exis stong ps
T
PORT SWEET EWHAM: Acts ag the port for Ruste Lumpur nost
inh
ay ss
of the tin being exported. here,
KLANG : Seat of. native officialdon and. residence of


SINGa,
POR
jg capacity Fo, thre,
pbs :
+0
e of the best
»g on
is
nandles SVENythis
ad
an
* tp any
5 a Se of
from Wor,
“® to Man}
: are sit ates "*, Mhets
-» offices Yate a. -
pain a “®Moug Rater. quar,
‘, apore, an SXce Cnt ad
in Singap i dress SY. nq Tell known
snroughout the “28t, e Very 800g 4 MDSetions wa shourg :
t+ the Group some USiness, I long tar, With the i
ge
nager, the Chier Enginee, ° Farrett, and his a88istant
a.
met and talkea With V8rious
50
I al
ther Offic;
. es
Mr, Barry, Who as
company e
: to gather the
up ie: (an employee), but 1 Was able
e . | i111 be of interest,
ee Kit mation which I hope Will be « Tee
following infor , eg receiving dup a ~
sr ugh & Co. Bute ae ~
be pe . Antwerp factori
water the Liverpool and Antwerp ;
from a i dh ee z
of literature fi
In
1» to a considerads de to econom
; is being
e fact that every eff os
laints of
merous, comp fs it seems
° a sinc A Bo : 1 poth 14°" o A
¥


perpen PSPs thes ye
8
ge 8h & Qo,
sous Penings
qari? Ula news
8 i]
Qh On,
ba May “Pay
be onl Den,
Song
@ to u They "Ret,
Thig
L id t has
no Siniy
grouP 's behalf,
c in +
pe yusede To further thy nk Suc}, Oat tis he
Gp 4,
9
UBeg
ed to me. that’ the... might
the various Sdvertiesins 80me e 8s,
e
2
they could be Sent to Bice
>
e
4, Although i think it is mainly due to the fact that °
they have been dealing heretofore in such things as cutlery,
where @ catalogue is an easy proposition, they made one
suggestion that I think might be used, with modifications,
they suggested that everything be included in one inexpens~
Pape Meare ae * e e 3 an he e= :
ive catalogue for general distribution instead of % -
; a oF Fol are and an szeporate epevisl 8
‘ut system of folders an this extent. 1°
oe to ,
te . modify the idea |
talogue, I would f aescriptt?
: n of an aiene
S beraiy worth while to include * ®


ad telat eee: Cang
jronss they a teh
pight be made up,
and aiming to inte
pesent folder Veta,
are only two at Preae
nt




am CBC ind oy lez me ,
Qnd Benen,
¢lements
t
ge
e an e2
to
jpe he populace are ncaa
t
yd
raps
Tee Te eee ahd ae 0
1
on n @8 quickly ry
dern |
po
CB
Following pag


in erik tobe
SS Oy
8
itions in + ie
4 with this Bide oF
@
following
ne Pa8Sag,
ine time Of my
fir ' Xe ane
ft 4 = 7 dng in “tig ‘ BL ed
or it is ¢y 3, ee ° :
wore “*tremery i hy I 8864
that £f m 1 :
gn zac’ re i a
ha ay
. » hi le.) try t ey 5 a aie
yead it 4n 1937 (date oe Sht ha, ths Sry ee
im
: re Ipp Pore,
gssence might hay, baxk Port), a ref nt
: Or ts
yere adding to iz only » Sotten Me of
Car
he time ce
consider very carefully cop : COme fon OU bp
Mure 4 OUD to
e
eee e es ° Do ie >
. ° firs; an, forg Am Indi
pe certain that we have in hag Most
sal
and the War Hast
ern country @ man who is thorougny
S
natives of that country,
to a large extent are being met and,
and
therefore, the younger
educated members of their population are inclined to
? “egressive, Self-important and have a tendency to show
: if not the
‘4 hess + they are the equal, if no :
attitude tha J evitable that
‘new authority
Sy : seit is in
Prior, to any Westerner.ses+r++ ah
8 F
: 7 to show +






FORwa
RD
qn consideration of thy
8 re
pee
pe true this month
Port, the
nonths hence.
cnactic, so mi =
go 9 xeq Up, and sii
bi]
45 of such a Willeonthe-wispt es
the Government of China plays an
extremely strong part in
I cam deseribe the position
of a representative of a foreign fim in this country best
es
Foreign Commerce and Industry.
py saying, that he is a combination political diplomat and
business man. He must, at all times, be in touch with the
proper Government Officiels. By nature of the fact that
the Government is constantly changing, this requires him to
ted with all the importent trees in the forest,
ab the little
become acquain
forgetting for one moment th
ery important once
her to be @ general
and should not be
so to speak, not
tree in the corner may some Gay Ren oa!
Therefore, this report is intended Tet
summary of conditions 4&
only reports
ence e
considered a permanent refer
count
made from month to month oP thse. °
‘Yeally reliable.




( 2) - VNantaoc a pide ;
ge.
*
Cities of :-


GENER;
iT
(As I mentio bas LGay, SIP a4
n ~—SSLON,
covering thic
then history 4n°Sding warwarg ee
he eo
a anot 11) > th,
sys Litt y itings
‘i,
e present Minist
ch. : er of Commins ¢
ghuea-Hue 48 @ Geman “a Stions
UCateg 8 Ch4
Ch Chua .
mye METS TAVITA Ye de tain MeN as g ge
Germe Pe sult
ed te is
shen to use The man, howe
er
pre Yeng, Director Generay
of
one down to the POSt-boy of oe
ry four or eight months in
China. As @ consequence, every Minister figures he haa better
get “his" while the getting is good. the €x-Minister of Com-
munications, Mr. Chung, who is a personal friend of mine, is
en American educated Chinese. Since he was a very small boy
he has been a friend of our Mr. Long, and they were both edu-
cated together at the University of Wisconsin. He is extreme-
ly favourable to our group, and as long as Mr. Chung is in
office, we have comparatively little to worry about.
Present state of affairs, it appears ‘hs
again in another three months oF SO
From the
t he will be in office
ahd
ee
Be vat tos
cx:
Pear eat SES of ENO aS


gnount of funds, ang ;
per of things, fron
aettT Is 1m °CCasto,
Ot
the at
pence? PORE Ee fefinig, 1
people however, and &
from Nanking,
aiready doubly texeg pena.
ing all interferers to stay ae en Ut imatum Warn.
(1) either his army revolts, 8 until,
(2) the land becomes to poor to
remain on, or (3) he Sees a ‘
ore advantageous Position for hin-
self. I have been unabie
to get any exact estimate of the num-
in operation in China,
knowledge, there are at least a dozen.
ber Of war-lords now wntste apices
You can well imagine
what the condition would be in America if there were, say a
man in Nebraska with the whole State under his thumb who could
"tell off" Washington; another man in Mississippi who had in-
vested himself with similer honours; another in Minnesota,
ing territories being
and the interven
another in California;
d . I realise that
under the special "supervision" of Bandits. 1
inder
this day and age,
y aifficult to believe in
all this may be ver ?
erica
ay as Am
| and the only piace
Unbelievable as it
arries
by anyone who is as far aW hat ¢
‘be, the condition is trues


a8 comparativejy Ca ky
Sten
gnenks tO @ numbe, Of Pn. is Or th he a
Ce) v of
soldiers and Sailor, of 3 tontery, 1 Shanghas
“tera, ®Ploan 4
tne inhabitants are able ne Sve Nat ton NOS, ang
. t 6
knows, ho nee a "orld
as you b Wever, that De 8 p Rcer,
oecasionaliy Ate he “Xl stence,
a cs
with 7 88 Was NONstrateg wily ‘nterteng,
zate case of the Chapes XChange to the C pany in th,
©.
it is very littie Use, howeve,, ere
: NE to
futures, especially in China, Howey yey POlitica;
)
sy hand, Which 4
economic affairs of their own 1
Many beople are of the
opinion that Japan is due for an upset,
At the Present time
the Military
are in power, ang as a consequence, they have
been able to acquire the necessary Yen to carry on extensive
operations in Manchuria. Like everyone else's, however, the
Japanese Budget does not balance. One of the principal fac-
t in this Budget is the tremendous appropriations for the
“4 : tion
: iderable agita
e is already cons
Military and Naval. Ther
%einst this policy.
ver t
of the Governmen
5 i ty which is now in control
° Military par vieh :
ational Budget to
: ) the N
| money from *
As demanding huge sums of ae
ion
» th f the opin
: . . : tions.
Carry 200. O70 |.
= On their extensiv ig ot Gok:


Mil
qno 8 who are in the Not Pemes
in Ja OW 8¢ m rv Dow
change P8n in the ‘ en tt ot, oe
Next two log ing t ger,
gnould take Place thene 8 vihy thre, Yea is litica,
Ust rg
a eee TM4Deraz attity mi ¢ 88th S change
participation tn Menchuns a Sign Nesa | "98h wou,
only hope at Pre sent oF Sat fan & dave fores on
n 6e b
in Manchuria, : “Loweg furth in ou
°F Partics
Pate
If anybody in America S Sane. :
‘On
new State of Mancho bie & under tiie <4.
foreign business ang Produce.’
>
come dissolusioneg.
Situation that it cannot be disregarded. Briefly let me
sketch the important events of Japanese imperialism,
The total population of the Japanese is 90,396,045. The above.
figure ts made up as follows :-
64,450,000
Japan P roper 28,058, 305
Formosa 291,198
Japanese Portion of Saghalien
. : : i ar
ae actinic te, 0 re are 6,551 per square
the
“Mare mile. In the city of Tokye
e 436 persons per


giles J*PAD must *XPang , Th
©
eir teeming million, f Sst py
th > ang th nd 8W te
yia 19 8 1ife-say,,, t °Y ang i Tri tory te
: a
gnehuria I doubt ve diy ern they oe * Maneny.
: th 4 *t they “brough with
phether Cy w ay &o0 down int g ot
but T iz ro °P there
question, am Sure that t te ber °F no £6 toss 7
most 4 Snt g “
would ES et rective n Stoppin t zi “armiegt
g machine gun bullet with : & then, thle ye bie, :
Stray Shieig
a machine gunner with & Speap
BOONOMIC CONDITIONS yy CHINA. :
As I have mentioneg before,
*ndent on whether op
not ‘some kind of central Government is estab]
Even should this take Place
ished in China.
it is quite. probsble that the sys-
tem would continue. It is absolutely necessary, annoying as
gee e f-
it may be, for us to pay these commissions to the proper o
, * A . * "
Cficials in China. It is a long founded practice, any
firm fe) ay ‘hina is ‘forced to
who does any business to speak of in Chi a
: oe ane |
t
‘Big 1 having the tac
extremely for Gunace . ,of
Conform to it. We are a a who is not who,
: , who,
and the local lmowledge of who is
MY Long in this respect. | “tt has been extremely dif? :
7 alled Janes + ° pee
Mth. the gentleman calle Lo eee
years association
Reg
2 Meas ae heb an A RIE ee ah
pint at ipa nied eae es
SS a i Bian eit


cult to break Mr , me
& awa
tne present time Jang, Y fp
ma)
ana to Poison hig Pyin
Sng Stween
stronger every day, hie
ee i
the efforts of Mr , Gaver)
| e
3
way, in order to
As
you may easily surmise, from my attitude, I have a great ade
miration for Mr, Long, and I Sincerely hope that every effort
Will be made to strengthen his position with us, There is


they might be in Some State eae have not been what
®rica
ynder the existing conditions e » I assure you that
mayc
ly lucky, and give thanks boty bea
collecting on our outstanding debts as
Telephones of China is an extremely peculiar one
reason or other, it seems the
and inferior type of man out to this country,
they have addressed to us, I have come to the conclusion
/
the light of some of their
Germans do not enjoy the same respect of the
ee Oras
eee
ws Page | | ©
en tried
Payatcrous failure, & Haley,
nd
ave this Sug ‘he Pe sult
th S°8ti on bo has bee
mak
that this 4 © wi
now 8 no h yp
k time t, “8rd to
Cement his loyalty te
For some)
Germans send a very peculiar
After going
through various files and reading some of the communications
that sometimes they are not just "right in their minds.".
Some of these communications are little short of bizarre, In
methods it is no wonder that the
chinese that we
pack of
Lede
.
hes
“
ae
Sy
Cee
ee
*
te
it
%
My
la
pe:
i ke q thie
pA REN Sop nae wee


gpines® Government 4.
an
that the We a
fact Press Te
eauc# . is Certay ‘ SP of
n rt
J
pusiness On their yp... Sot due
wats ®
of one Of the PSPdrts os Woulg
at +t
nome to Berlin,
at every turn in China
efrorts, “c O*OPe rat onn
23.05 *
" a ae ee fh me = ate
Re ee Re ne nt Me
ReneS tl . Fists Seg
48 nardly the "Sine qua
GENERAL, OFFICER, the phrase,
of i
jon 8 business and Personnel, In dealing with th |
t @ office
here, I propose to omit any particular mention of Mr. Cavell
s . ; _
as his qualities and methods seem to be well knowm in Chicago,
I shall begin then, with Mr. Long. I have already mentioned
that Mr. Long is invaluable to us in this territory, Hvery
effort should be made to make use exclusively of his peculiar
The great majority of Mr. Long's
, jons of our
talents and connections.
sing along the collect
As you will note
t a change in the
Manchue
time is now taken up in nur
outstanding investments in this .oqualnys
Under a previous heading, + mentioned = hance in
; : . chance
Japanese Government will pos sibly give us a
twe
"la, Looking towards zng SHO" eB


pow, + ** ™Y Optag th
11 me Ss
gpould be a Oweg tims we
for these future Partios
MN no
Pations
t we wi .
&n
seid worth a trial] an ey ce,
2
Pecause 4
pegua BOW - Wo WeUuldchag, the
futures What time Mr, Long
collections is taken UP with
He has made AO mention of the
what he thought of the idea he
with me that it would release him for more important
work, I then went into the
matter, but when I askeg him
agreed
matter with him, merely on the
basis that some day it might be Possible, we talked of it
something along these lines, Mr, Long could obtain an effie
cient assistant whose salary would amount to approximately
: d oe :
G.$130,.00 a month, I do not wish to be too optimistic, bu
* e
I beliey ant the money spent
\ such an assistant
‘the next five yearse
to us many times over in the 3
ious a leaving the Company
Nkaew' there /@iaiemt nths, hese rumours were
during the lest three or ) a
totally unfounded, and I sa Lo


poger dine his leay;
t . Us,
pontent at Present.
Fo
apd broad=-mi ndeg Chy iy
es
pe has done so fan
2 ie
future, 2nd for ns. vex
gituation.s Wi thou: his
gnsight that BE have {Ke
Mire Barrington was,
Pr
®Sident Of the Autos
of Peculian times and
Wainteg With yp
engineer who is Perhaps
a let us Say, ridg
nga sl
sized saddle which has been Siven him ightly over.
There is little doubt
telephone ‘Sngineer,
that you Cannot put a carthorse in a rac
in my mind that he ig «» very fine
fact remains
@. He
seems to me to be totall unsuited for the position of Presi-
dent of the Automatic Telephones of China,
Unfortunately, and
this seems to be the case of most outports of the world, a
great deal of business revolves around a very silly social fab=
mic, Disagreeable as this may be, the condition is true, and 1
do beli that Mr Barrington is not "suited" to represent us
eve -
a moment ‘that he be re#
should alwa ways
t 2 do pelseve t Bhat anere
es of this title, but Le on
48 President, I do not recommend for
; in the no abasneyts


per what Wo
Vlg
yeft 10 charge due to a pr "@PPen Shou)
Qlo
t
gar Aether hae beak ou See of
® r
n an Opinion p ®aso1, :
oi h "no a: 4 “8Ving that t 8 : my having fo 2
ypat the minal Head of our Sema 4 SOngruoy Tmed J
Panch h 8 to me
er
parrington 1s not 9 broadens
7 Snd seeing that
Mechanica) Side), are Carrie
: ; rk with as much enthusiasm
as any G00C engineer, He Seems, however, incapable of under
standing, Or wanting to Uunderstend, the broader aspects of our
dealings with the Germans and the delicate Government relations
themselves. I can best sum up his attitude by quoting his om
words: "the whole thing is jes a mess o! politics," ‘Th thus
speaking of Mr. Barrington I want to make it clear that I re=
gret very much having to write in such wise, as I have grown
very fond of him personally, and greatly dislike having to
make these remarks. This however, as I see it, is the true
t is worth.
what i
can accept it for
situation and you | to be functioning with
ms
Regarding the office itself, it °°
as far as T can see, all
a
the minimum of staff possible an®»
have been dispensed with.
UWnecessary expenses


specie’:
e office in Chi
qp na Seems
to that of the fameg "re . 9
8
ne left of them, ang Cann g de,
cago Come var °
sooner, however
oyole pumps to motor horns. This is 211 very fine, but I do
not believe our present starr in China has either the time
or the facilities for exploiting these sundry odd products.
To create greater harmony, both out here and in the group, I
would recommend that somebody, either Chicago, Antwerp, or _
London, should take over de finitely the Automatic Telephones ;
The present system seoms only to lead to confus~-
Incidentally, none of this .
Whether
of China.
ion and some slight ill-feeling.
: : a towards Chicago.
S0-called illefeeling is ae ning to do with it,
anyt
or not I happen to be # Chicagoan ™ » condition in every
| found the sam in
I cannot tell, but I have ‘apa onpioyed UY Chicago
The
country I have visited.


nsing or
ate i ees Me »..
iy 2 Aah ge SoMSraij, neg, wi
the t
pone” SPE way ch ae
p? ae ighly Commeng Aleag, sae “M1 pment a
ee Seas ea, ay a
reg TP or London is ts .
° ot ‘
e
the Ways
yate, OF letters °ffens; - Seems t, be
ve
gome petty bickerin, 4
> Or
written.
a ae there Seems *MEOL gone, of ¢
t
with London or Antwerp
sncuemp> When’ T visies .
a the Antw
Srp fact
{dea would work out, Since I
have been out here » however, I
have come to the conclusion that Perhaps it is not too shrewa
a policy after all. The people here certainly have their
hands full in developing and maintaining our present large
business as regards telephones. They cannot, or at least
should not, be harassed by requests to sell everything from
Cigarette machines to wash racks. We have no man here who
department stores and sell door-dells
at this “face” is &
men in all
Immediate=
Could go out to various
ete. without losing "face".
Very silly idea, it nevertheless SPP ream
xception
Sorners rld, with the °
of the wo , : space" in the eyes 0
Granted th
lies to white
f the


q larger Scale Wourg &
he SO mich
pit® Tor iy
3)
gn the Orient, Tair
Ure in
themselves under the Follow this terras
(1) Maintenance © headings, gat
Present outst are COlleg
n,
(2) Exchange
(3) Smaii p.
Ax; ;
and totalis stousiness > Slectromatics
” >
(4) Participation in Manc
(5) Extenas
ae
°8 Up separately,
(1) As regards maintaining our Collecti
ONS On our oute
standing investments in China, viz, the Nanking, Chapei,
and Nantao exchanges, I think the system that is now in use
an excellent one. We have such a check on the exchanges
that we are now receiving practically all we bargained for
on time. For this fortunate position we have to thank Mr.
k we would be in a
Without their wor
long and Mr. Cavell. age gaa
rmanse
similar position to that of the Ge beta
deli that, as much as possible, eimt tionse
2 Sve that, -“- . out our collec
ould be follow car rying
arkete As Im
Chine proper represents & Bus® ae
"ill note from the preceediné ©”
potenti al m
the opportunity,
Cats ee


Pee
£0 develop this MAPK g ¢
of 2 central SRines,
it ®nt, he »
oda aes this in the Whe the. **80 11 shngng
a
”h, cannot continue MCh longs Shaot4
2 1 ee © cong
guch @ central Sovernment nd fT aVe }; itions
(2) Regarding ©XChang, ace be eee dence oe
effort is being Made +
that it would be unwis
this country Until we have
present outstanding debts,
that neither Mr, Long nop Mr, Cavell gp
8
fe) 2880tLate Sales
missions to the proper officials, ana in the proper manner,
is the one who gets the business in China,
(3) Regarding small P.A.x, business the programme is be« ee
ing carried on as usual, with occassional sales from time
With regard to Electromatics a recent demonstration
to time. See
. Shanghai Mynicipa en
was made to the officials of the Shangh a |
; rably impress-
the French Concession. They appeared very favou me
one great disadvan-
re is, however,
ed by the equipment. The several thousands of rickshaws ie:
There are ea |
tage in this respect. ns of transportation
in Shanghai, They provide
1i
in and about this rather spra¥
the main mea as
ts are,
The stres
ng citys
stion is something
)
ffic cong :
p with apprenen
“rule, quite narrow,


Ee oer ts; taxi S$ 3 9
1¢é
No place 4, ‘ Seg,
Tle
aes
and behing @ ten ra
5 2s n Ok ana
tb we Whether o» not ys
yoe®
r
gast weight differen, in
wh 8
Q8 to be 86en What woulg
ppen at the crossings further Temoved from the center of
«he
ne way to find out how the
Jo and that is to instal] ~
ppens, There
; ing to read the law to the rickshaw
{ then sit back and see what ha is no use try-
one,
coolies because they are
large houses dealing |
a by the day from |
: ey are rente y |
. tusiness. The coolie may be from a hw
tolely in this
from almost anywhere}; no knowledge
or
*s from Shanghai, oF
nough .
of him and strangely &
: rea of him an ;
traffic conditions is regired ‘ 1s a pair 0
i: (11 he needs
knowledge of the city itself. ie By


ae
a
8
pnat the presen: h
40? ct Sgot at
4 a guccessful, however lon
s
1
4h nH
g af gnetelling a trie, : q thay
am nothing if not a :
ph Pr eheng
it was that the Totals sate.
Q tt
tt estigation"
Fee e OR MAY. Bee
anchurig tT have
ghly, The fact
nt moment I have al-
Again I want to Point out that I believe now
| ready covered this subject fairly thorou
| that our participation is nil at the prese
“wedy explained,
: {1s the time to look four or five years ahead as regards Man-=
tmria, and to begin laying the ground work at this time.
he results may be exceedingly discouraging at first, but with
feetfur handling I believe we would stand a good chance of
: sid-
Rrely telephonic, of course, does not com in for any cons
“ton for the next ten years at least.
ception of Totali-
ex
Th regard to South Chinas "ue -
¢
SAE Pie i cea
> Saige 75" - nee :
iss Sy , ee,
mete pap ee ARSE ES ARS se


; prospects in Hongr,
q 40
—(6gf
neg Qng
ports Ot? taken 1 BY ths Ly ee
; a
Pye P ot control of 4. Co in
0
thas
Wh THe,
Sty hay at th,
e e conditions 4, that
th
the
ns < qv Ve
“8Ction of ¢ nq fro
their territory,
=) Co
i
we ticular Sect Sts
é Shivy
a, Whol, br 1 itr :
f ger Ophea edemcatah 2 i VAnces bh,
1d take over fing) Control o¢ this territe ee
} ghou. NN
o
OF MENTORS, heute immediate
i 1 of the operations here in order to relieve the .
—_—— t diversifiea,
. ent, somewha
ee
instructions that come to this
territory.
ee
-
ision should be made so that in the event o
9) - rov |
(2) Some p :
sing similar capa- _
persons possessing sintter espe
ts absence some vise” Ur.
| can il] be in charge, to "watch and a
tlities, Ww
e
‘rington,


ye
Fd
stalk up and down brandishing their belove
“like a pasketful of °
pf the Ancependene, Gay,
12)
following: The 4, tay b, Acie ‘
Mpep “Loy
a &q
exactly conduog
ive to ext SXaoty & Welars i
on the train Fok ‘ “Odeg t Nf Ding eNJoys oH
— ays Paln r Yin "8 the we
a night Q e Wat
and & to go. i bhi Vel, Shade , a
wel to exceed = ls arti ght, and I have bes ; Wa
fteen . War n Shia) ‘. Bey
A mil Eg hay a:
ceptions of the vale Ss , iti PPregen © & day |
3 ©S when * in g ? allows a
off the trai We 9 Peed it ¥
nN and run iis, re 80ing - an With the 4
* Th inal ex. 1
erting myself at all - S the Side, ‘u, COUlLE juy
not know ithout ex.
as well as I now qo
aS
of Chinese war-lords also h One of the multitude a4
as his private car tacked on to ea i |
put there are certainly a lot of th
em.
stern so all in all
we are fai :
statio , airly bristling with armor. Every |
n we stop at, and that occurrs with appalling frequency, ve
4
another hord of soldiers and military police descend on us and i |
a be-heading swords i ,
in a properly fierce manner. ‘There are anywhere from ten thou- My
8 soldiers, 1 an
in addition to +4
about four third class
sand people on this train
amned into
certain. re all J
n They ar ‘ ai ning pumanity you have seldom
cattle cars, and guch a mass ©
‘seen. They swill rice» nollers
pickens une ®


baer dog of “XCeeg
pain and trot Sasily
F pear they are how
g1e after mile or
ston roll by my
mich Usually consi ss.
ttle huts ClUstereg
ag 8 2
lit
er an an Pitt tle “Allag,
many little MUd—~pi gs qd twenty
sO rs P) howey. 6 Wor]
eks, lackj <P hy 4 iy
Hires WEeXs, ng ad 1% he
Cont
: Shanghay I coat Aftey
: : nove again. I Stoppeq orf 1
8M glag
n Ninking f ‘ to be ©n the
ot. Oar Teoee “Ngineer
there
j broke my long °Stabli sheg “UStom ang bou
pecause they were Girt Cheap an
Qd well Worth having,
some dandy presents there ned: S2 ae
"tainly not going
what they are until fT arrive home,
this being the fourth, I suppose YOU are out in the Nagerac,
How
I wish I were with yout
The last memory I have of YOU Was a
fleeting blimpse of your faces as my train pulled out of the La
. le street station. You lookedq very cold and sad. Believe me
Bee travel up
th", comes home to you when you
's "Good Earth",
Pearl Buck
: re igh 1t of by people
: highly thought of
3 The book is very
in this country.
ho live in China which means a great deal.
who
os nineteenth t
: . ai on the nine
Llin Shangh a is count on me
o sail
Tam supposed to meet Cave
on Maru for Yokohama. a a I plan to stay abou
being in Japan by |
it and how cheaply
weeks or a month,
I
gga ne DOR: |


a
Deter tina eee
Sting
"4 yisit by anyone, 6
“Our,
gnina his lovely CTU gs,
t
ports: Tha ALdanry, Preven; he
pn it, however,
fe)
OES eaters oweethealiy
; a
Sei cttas eee that
still not be lert penis
one the Trans-Siberian Rail
ina Which you Should Teceive
some two weeks before this letter, Please don't put the Nagerac
Me t time
: : as the firs
but Tom Brown of Culver! It was the © ords. I received the
and it played havoc with ny eT and think it is a i
* don't Kno", but
. more |
and the 1
travel |
rel |
- Compilation of all my le
The mo
$00d idea, Just what I shell =
4 rill make a good souvenier any


oe a ;
. What in O8g3
poos blazes Wou ble
perhaps thou h or fy EY but t
gan? bri S > my Own h any) Whi tin Shida
serve to bring order OUt oF “ © an is Bat 4.
pad @ letter fron TLitiy he Chags . 888 of pe
I Y Sch : h
Ute
‘gad eee artment With + oe ther g,
W
°
now amounts to ten dollars per ther boys
we
‘ Se)
ecting “=n © dramatic School iy N Gay Cryer
could do in volumes. Very little gets by th
at kid,
i If
ae eo Something, she doesn't tmow it may
>
if she is not
supposed to Know, you may depend on it that she does.
+ Not until
ets up against a couple ee :
she & pie of wise-guys like you, who are nothing
short of clarevoyant, does she meet her match and better.
qurrah! We've speeded up...we must be doing all of twenty-fivel
Next time I make this trip, I'm going to do it on the back of a
camel or in a rickshaw....I'tll get there quicker. If you want to
know what this section of China looks like, I'll look out of the
tern Nebraska. Tsn't
occasional
It looks exactly like wes
n a field of co
window for you.
that romantic? Here's eve
usual
Coolie working in the field and he aoe wld hazard & guess | ii)
ho
looks very ing 1 cane
the whole thing. He 15° tn twice 8 aay. one ng
is teer
that he doesn't brush h


Oly Wty
rie Landlong a at a te
ae Dek om
1. y : (Smy° Kong, No
Re Location of ais — wie #9
Rent “sated 8 my
3. e 1ss 08 Om July 16th ! vee
Usust 15t¢
ye. OTS Own 11 f = a
and kite n be i
Uten = ..
— 11 bat’? wtshtions, bowls
| Wels, Napkins
5. we Owner Mrs, Ondo wry
© enjoy a Teal Japanese five he
5.
DOSSible facilit
£ An the Japanese house,
lectric gy 1
rou supply.
bd Hire oe Tas Ehly about x 10.00:
c) Charge of
od, anyway Mrs.
dvice you definitively later,
“i All expense
e
a the “a
will be ready for use in July 15th an .. -
(Sila = te able to get in on July léth, but Mrs. ae e
ete inform to the tenant on 15th. The Japanese
tub will be ready on July 20th.
ence to give a house
. the first experience would a
Remarks: ee such a way, thomter sere : “
to an eres derstanding in oe a practice and .
be some ecg sete thing to the loc
ve ey
has to lea
customs.
Masau Kamiya (Signed)


a
other and
It's been about Ju :
ce to write 4 Ck»
ona? - you ang Z Sing
jon is that
,4na b+ we have b Bln OA gor
n end getting OViin
jape 8 Settleg 14° 4 & my Testy
yoweve™ » well *Stabli sheg ‘ > ney Couns
am living exact
and ly like a y Japan.
paw fish. AI1l day long +
this far and
he consider
me extremely lucky to have the Opportunity to 1; g:
ive like this
as the Japanese do not like to rent theip houses to forej
gners.
However, I fixed a smile on my land-lady who is guite a cultured
woman and speaks very passable English ana after a lot of pro
and con finally persuaded her to allow me to live as I am doing.
Often now, even she honors me by serving me my meals. You see,
in Japan, the man is supreme; and he is even assisted in the
Process of eating. My little servant girl tucks me into bed
tows out of the room; all of
n a fuedal lord and the
le the women
each night and then bows and kow-
Which makes me feel like a cross betwee
how to hand
in e me, they know
eel Gabriel. Believ , The woman's place
te
about i so wart in cold.
Over o nonsense
here. There is n keeping 2
ather and
1s fanning the man in hot we


Re
eee oa ee Sh
=)
gavored with Some est, Jus
Te
ing thing.
Pet De ee ae donry
of the country, On '{
poraries and do as se
© cont
as 50 . y do
2 test pr
“Sy i, sligh p OVoCati Ed .
Big Wear tically n i
a be @ prac Y nothing when 7 x
ate es ings a plate oF ar,
<i . nam ang “Bes 4h
2 “4 nT tile. | fr
hee’ ‘i : &Tace and toni she er
&, Ve. “ er ae oe any thing to me b : ‘tenes
et ae M does the same, ang ye Yo uy litt
~— we, *Y happiz
Say i about four dollars » month
ay ae — in me
wal "tne Bk me, and €ach day I think ‘
ea ‘ of leaving, I got out
- ft Ly, | F) of the hotel as quickly
i
| iy i
I am off to Manchuria next week for a short look at i ,
a
the forming of a new state. On the advice of everybody con- i:
cerned, I have decided that I would be very foolish if I left
this section of the world without seeing the new state of Man-
thi
chukoa. It being not too easy for Americans to get into this
to Colonel de la
: 9° AG
Country, I am going as 4 personal 4.D :
He is 4 personal friend 0
re makin
i , is son we @
mine and in the company of } any salary with it
not carry
8 ete put also the job
a. 5)
Chevalerie , “Or, the Belgian Army: g the trip to-
, e
gether, such a fancy title ‘* me
king
; ae : ndi
has no duties aside fro ha
q 1 Pang, °
General wang of General Be


360
gight bee Kamiya is p
9
hae Minister of Cone ees
Cat; Op wy
you in America, Manchn, ns 2 1
0a
that it is * Perk
you of ‘Temendoy a
“Sim: Ne
n another ten yea Port an mn
1 Ts it wily ance 4. UCh.
zerritory - The Way to male
© Mone
s1e AeDeCling Tr 2 Yds
yoni S tlm potas ee *O get 4,
phone pos Sib ilities are
any foreign capital to be i
Ovested in Mu
a .
it, and they are only too set
Capacity aS a young world
observer and report back to you just what is what Waen I get
cd ge
back, I'll take a couple of days off and write you a long report
on Manchukoa, and unless I am vastly mistaken, it will be worth
reading. "The early bird catches the worm," and for once inour
lives let us play at being robins.
There is a lot of stuff in this enve
Ttl1 send you along some photographs
ce to take
lope that I thought
you might be interested in. 3
! yet a chan
of me in my Japanese house 2 soon as I ‘pelieve implicitly
ie | : ; . ev ye
soak Has apahhad Herote I Loree’ it; goalt De es.
Bee ee neat fellow possessiné © ee
everything Cavell says. He 18 ° ® nce in a walle
cna, bY is Pe” wes pe talkers
Personality and is a chammine ©
he rungs away with nimselt-
ee”
put every 0
2 a BY aus


8 mh:
a '
 ,
7
. ‘
7 ‘
“, SN
> Lf
> !
é Ne
6 % me
- Baek eA
be et
N Vv
A ier ‘
wee «
4
>, > Nd
wf %
taht De.
he
eF
rey
,
ae"
SO Neg ry
TAD,
45%
*
Stee : { 2
OF hs
Sa ay |
Me
ty
i i
at hey oO Li
$ £G%
4
DY, att
‘ee.
aly,
ee: AGES id
; ‘ + |
3 4/ f
ns
: , Be we
Bes
Ae hi
mad Od
gas
= AP ty Pom
+5200
eae
(ie af 4
ide { <bhy
A eee
4 Ye
my oaty
=]
" :
ps
Ee,
1 4
;
MIR:
ad my co
serait? I shall Save
not to trust him tog mug) re
° ; ‘* ho
i gene 20.P Tinanei a) = Do . le
is gerupulously Honest
control Pon Se He al 8 »I bey,
inly not 2G has to 18¥Q
pee 7: 22. See a
‘ onfine himself to the
.q that every man e he
gaid urs business : ang Plage does
i iS
every action should pe Seas SLs oy have alway
‘ neq
pees. AS TOT) Chis mangoes & dr
Q
will bounce back on hin,
SCENES Desk Ot Imperial Hotel Tokio
TIME: One afternoon inJuly 1933
CHARACTERS :Me
Clerk : 4 i
Mes (Leaning across information desk) Will you please get
me the Automatic Telephones of Japan, Toyo Building,
on the telephone? 4
Clerk: Automatic Telephones of Japan? i) Aq
Me: Yes, please. he
Clerks;Hah, do. you know Mr. Janes? \ |
slightly- eee? why?
M P 7 ee
ta question)
Clerk:Hets a millionaire isn't hee
nese meaning
"Ts that sot")
le: Ah Sodeska? (Jape
y yery riche
¢ money
tool pig
ehtess*
“lerk: 0h yes, he is ver neres
lot 9
Oh I see, he spent *
1 that?
rooms and al


5e
Ah sodeska ,
ye?
guerk:0h Yes, T an se
he
Wie oe FOSS he my
St se
Yes, I guess he eae
(Clerk Calls the :
walk thoughtruy
things like expens
€
awa
Erne Cie
o- 28
ee
a aie
a
pi caer Se Fa
eee
=
=


CAWe<7 VIA RCa.p Aug
ANTUN
ve
(GEO K GANN 1033 y ts
BUREN ST)
BROOK SFr eS
em SPRANG OS Bee here ta:


Ernest K, Gann
Bn route San Francisco iI ,
Auge 1935


RP
wary,
4rst of
F al] thi,
a study of Pep
as Cup op
to 889
mainly the Paez the nt
practically nil, to
*th the
pusiness here ni :
matics and Totalisat, »> 9g
Ts
shere at this Writing P
e
clarif 8 Te
as @ ying Mediun é Rory ie teary on
of the ec nat. inteng “hing
POBardin iat h he}. . Pather
ghall attempt to Claripy : Uure Poites > to sory,
One CY.)
an sit of ee LN
chur uation, ang Tage ° Probleng ‘ a) te
ed from it
e Wil} be Steen
in my opinion, it
; is Practicaliy Useless ¢
or a Westernoy
to write about Oriental
ything Save a mn
ost
superficial manner. the Well-wor
d West is West" n Saying, "Bast 4s Rast
and West is West" me
y be extremely trite, but 4t is none
the less true, That the Orientals have copied many of the
inventions and methods of western civilization means very
little. They still, and evidently shall always, think and
, , The effect
act in an entirely different manner then we G0.
. upon their modern buss
et, for
that their age-old civilizations has
5 at
ist
pelievable. t
se imo
iness methods and politics 1s ® » lay the noose for
one moment to consider them inferior
ones own neck.
I made extraordinary :
l lived in a purely Japane’®


” pe ~
i bos de: Py
ee aA»
» . eg ct F
26 or
ate nothing but S
an
their rether dir Rg foog
Tleuy, i > ey
jn the company Sp *Nuae.
t t : Nes,
ly fortunate 3, ndbs -
a
ro ULC ae
8
for hours trying te i Bligh.
in Ee
psychology, ana tomperen
Snt,
thing well in hang
iim: Japanese s oe
e 00
n
oe Ce ae oe Stone Wal) Pas lat
apart as ever,
» 8nd in the
ae he negotiations With these Pedple cannot p
8
continuously successful without understanding Something of
The proof of this lies in the fact that the most
successful business houses now Operating in the Far East,
are those who have bended every effort to understand the
Oriental,
tn speaking of Japan, we must consider these things even
gs day and age to re=
more closely, It 1s ridiculous in this day
On the contrary, in the short
b
Sard Japan as a minor powere 5 a first class power
becom
space of thirty years they have bt
ould be further
intecyed Uttle people
"somewhere in
from the truth
; | c
With a vengeance. Nothing
3 og pather sq
than to think of them #5 ® rat
inning around in kimon
the Pacific," That myittle
After all, is now the *%


O°
she poundar
Les of i
solves» "the
poly
Ce
put they are taking
not content wit, oe p04
merchant fleet, G5 Ras > they
yice 18 Papidly ae b aie haya organ, tere es
pritish Merchant weer the skiae 8a °
8.
n
eff
on er +4 Loy ent sep
Slreag wes aly
» With 188g» y hay if
almost every oth
er
line, degree, A
accomplished in th, ‘
Sleph
)
the world, and despit
© ta
with no little succes :
Se
of their price a’ » yet th
26 allow me
S them to sell their good au ogee
ods in the fa
ce of
ours. Tariffs ar ou
e nothing to them, Raise y
. : Yr tariffs t
3 high, and the Japanese will make it twice as ch ES
g. Cheap. Now
that they have
y Manchuria to furnish them with their long-needed
rew mat
erials that formerly they had to purchase from other
co
untries, I hesitate to think what they will do to the world's
otton formerly bought fro
qa in the past. They will
markets. They will have ¢ m Americas
They will have coal, drawn from Chin
1 the thousands ©
have iron, that used to trave
1 have terri
r overeport
¢ miles from
tory allowing them %0
Europe to Japan. They wi 1
jation problem»
emigrate that should relieve thet ssaheeoet
that W
Rarer i 3f) ot SOS we wis
y they ve g gre question 0
g pring tne grandest farces
her "proper" penaviore
"N op OF yancHUEO®
EW INDEPENDANT STATE
ever seen on any 5¢88°*


a. 7
z * = eas % ’
i \ \ he a io yee » ; \ Be ‘s : - t .
hn qnis Ssomcalleg Gage oe" a F Lee *
ote Peng, 7; ON dr .
\, Ny \ perritory comprising sere ' nt Stat, rae ee
™ 4 83,09 Xehy: ,
4 ” population of some x9 009 6, - Are sae 1a 4
‘ v & You
\) 4 Panes, i) a
4 ‘ pot awer despite the n Qn ° k **8eenenes mae the
- ‘y, gcause formal War Was ney eg, only i (4
at *Slarea),
ere T*PAReS aig
4 : ved
i, perritory. By Virtue of theip i) a
Ss Ovin u
“t My and thotr machine-guns, She worig Was } "S8China ti ong
ae 8 be
ae politest manner POSsibie © BBed ty take Roti
* that whton J
the goodness of her heart, head bp
MBE forty
f the world, it was to be a Comp
0
letely Indep
4ntaining formal Aiplomatic rel
ma
occasional "slight"
Sndant Country
ations ang So forth,
adwice fron the Un=fathomadh
le wisdom of 144
the Japanese government;
& sort of a "Manchuria for the Manche
11 the world woulda have the Opportunity of enlightening
fal | t 30 | ,
3 h new territory with their goods. They even wen es 7 ER
} | Pekin | | i a |
this ric int the Ex-Emperor of China, (exiled from Peking ey
oin
far as to app
DY p . e 3 ; |
9 r
enjoyed by a }
to have all those powers
Yi, was
honor Mr, Pu
, |
ve close i on a
'goneof=Heaven", but very
bukop Sa
te 8 ned? Mane i) a
chief of state, not quire § art. What has happy py: the red th
nterp jea 1s bY
ern cou . Amer 5 aa
to it; it's mod churians then apeneaven", it eee
un by the Man yi, "Ex-500" eis under ay
1s no more r Pu ¥iy his Wi
.. Mr.
Indian, His Excellency»
®


4 —_— a aes ek
yinister from top tt aN “
igdvisor" e@ven keep ~ ton PS ‘ ON
8S ¢ »
gory @PParatus of Ming ary
Eve G Sten:
hen H
on Kh abil eat Advisor, "eae,
My m \, 4 peforee When the 4 7 Way
te MN, | Peraty
. ‘ S,, ti, from him again and 2, '
3 ee Cks
hey As far as the ma,“ YP tn
ty Ny, ; : outed += |
ty, i it 4s being Observeg She
a) M4 Y, AY) in Some do
u, Hy t Japan is ve Peg
a : 4 ‘ie tha ry Short of th
be -abundane Pi
‘ ah over © of "orla=ter) oy
hes oe 8h
~ wy, , gaid, that unless go, sth 4
tee ; fh ; es of
tty f mh, te disrupt Japants future Sch ba
dp, | neg
F "Hh not stand a ghost or @ chaneg ‘
“FON,
, My . ten years. Therein lies MY point
Mh; iG do any business in Manchukog ana
ig 8 iny
my ire should
ay {ly ly a ao we Prevalent, the
ae within the next fi
MOH Hf, se ee tet Fours Ther’ 1s no use fooling
ourselves, within that period of time, Japan means to ha
ve
90d os vy
urged i things so well in hand as to bar foreign competition
: @ (jin Manchukoa. As far as I can see, there is but one thing
ah tat : that stands in the way of them accomplishing their aims, I
fy nee | took this question up in ny report on China, but I shall
enlarge upon it somewhat here.
Japan is at present
As I mentioned in my China report, : ything |
Th yun ever te |
Under the thumb of the military party. - dise 4
: if, and nobody dares e
lneluding the "Son=of-Heaven” himself
g on earth
b=)
3
3
5
@
ute their word. Now no aie @
tive Japane®
triotic fervour than 2 MY"
ountry's
! the victories of his °


peart sweli, with,
9
ot that most or the
fe
“tf aie S’CCesan,
ar
ith th
atom me oe ;
1 ona Par W
and fully - lth Shy 4 ae Way ae to
top a his, ® “Dove, |
go not § They furty, “ By fay
ge air-raids 4, To
pid
he
rey ang Ok *88nai og 8rlet,
wh
. PES
ont aon ‘ =
5 eT . S
See
“4 8Gin
’ fil) th S®ldoy, . g
Manchurian heroigy, ha
of
8 I be
4 q
> ang Parag. 8 : 8 With Storigs
;
eets at all hours Of the I
gtr
a ) oy om
porate maneuver S.
ela
Party" eng
invariably comes with
he ni
his chest out,
All this nonsense,
h any Westerner has long grown out o
whic Ss as
f, 1s new to "Mr. Zushi" ,
s it It usually winds up like Practically every-
love see
and he aT ode
the West,
he Japanese are doing that 1s imported from the
e the Ja
thing els
with grown up ._
tly like little children playing
xac
They are 6X
to them), they
they drive a car, (still new
en
men's toyse Wh
t a
They drive a
speak.
t "auto-driver", 80 to
a
are playing
4 tha
in the fac
delight a
q quickly. They
% they
£
a migh
suicidal speed taking nee fr
fast 2 Ls
can drive something 80 you
At works » Es
ntrol of
Tam an "autor
mile ees
on the brakes and 8 ack of 6°
Fal ,noinge
driver!" They carry g to ane
flyin
into everything from haat
tensely enthusiastic, !
a
want '
done by man and wa ‘


W iv.
rdl
peguer sy ve *°Brety
ab
jompletely away my le ‘dens
nplaying SOldie, thes, 4 ; Seto
> Ble mp,
ed Jin ©n
and a » Sven Playing .
t continue 8
jus Sibouy tepy
Sag ne
BUT, ecceethen, ®m Q
are
, Yr
gystole Rumblings — ‘ta 2 4
P)
zo think of, macy, ieee © mt
r
coffee for him 4, ~ int 4)
Morn;
ng
nis after-dinner ebece
fon h
nk
of it with his Cronies
thoughts."
thoughts." Unfortunate)
V9
propaganda, the mi litaris:
8
of the national budget
opinions and are promptl
' |
s | ptly slammed into jail for harboring
Yangerous thoughts against the integrity of the Japanese
Imperial Government," and of course the military party. If a
you question a Japanese (of military leanings, foreefully or me
|
There t
by Choice), he will tell you that they are Communists.
are undoubtedly a large number of commnists involved, but 1 ie
the majority are citizens complaining i a (i) | oe
, constructing pattlessbips em ee i
5 over Toy: alone cor i t
t an awesome tax~
‘tion for the sole purpore "
| | " ; maneuver
Machine guns. (The, eee
nat tm
two million yen.) So 4% ee


other words that
ye of PVo)
ty ‘yh wont E" ¢) COurge thas “ton
eo Me RN P eternal) e
be. 4, ine nh, i yw 0 ae 4 ~ tmtng oie
¥: : elie " j a few weeke, nut a “hat
ee hy: hy hy there "aa a :
ee Mery) oy oh
ty. ; 4 | Vik Me gpowtd anything of thi d Rett
es ace gq: at
be i 8
, “ut ats iad 1 perties, our Seg.
he thy, y i A yriet Fea tt ge & bi Sy
ie ah ji 5 firm would be Che nq thay
Fi .: pee > Dog
te, en of being cons, *4b}
ot ee io “ered en 2
bay Pe otter @P» PUt T ao try)
ihe: , , |
gk ae $ eg of unrest that
Ripe. Ah from 411 this yoy wil} Pessip)
ee } T Come
fy hes tpat I do not approve Of the far
| A nese
ty got
cM i 4 that I have but littie Pespect Fis et
a “he. Slr past
ee . Gd accompl14
Liens) ethods an Plishments
{ ra ii » and that I an hot
is | gs to their future, Nothi .
Vay kip’, , F "8 Could be further ¢
, a m" fhe Japanese, despite theip many faults
Y Ghats +, :
| blance of order, out of what was formerly utt
success, brought | en
thelr country up to the rest of the world in the short space
of seventy years. As far as their future ts concerned, I
*
have every confidence that their present childishness will e
ime.
me to maturity in a very short space of =
ze I am risking being ecce
politics",
Finally let me say, that ~ nosis
tg over-interest in
"864 of displaying a "voung man punt Howevers
; peports 4
er br Inging so meh of 1t into E and anternationel re
g “@nnot but believe that world P any 1076" pusinesss
\ ‘ong are of immense importan
BR


Begenvton tO them ata
0
_ majority of Whose
; 4p
tay Py .
BR gay, yn,
wa * at ae
oF 2htwing %
wat onh yee
4 a ber, hens
tat TIS le wielnses auiey bo heck
eae LINGia wiklness «i AE
4 e i 1 Pye} ne per AG Sh
n atties boy via spedka ol tar Beets
ta Cagk the mel aikpey h i de
om afraid tast the ae % ies
es Oe What escapes, OO
1g Oe ee
ae. y
ate ty Si pe ey Lao Sg
here Gert mr 8 tp tiale 2 i
hs


in. Wea Se a ed Ae Oak a) ORE ? = ge et
Heo hi a aa, ae 10° at eo ae
pe he 5, ve hae 7 ea a
.” ; a «8
Fe a
=a ; *
ly
DE ot omone ot,
i Oh th a \ Yd yrs Frazar. , ‘
ee Kamiya pe
3 M, ot) pire oh Aut one
as * oy Re Horaguen; ty
; tag t
fe se pis Exe Ye Sugi Paneg,
®
Tape
Neg
yre Sugi Fuji , ete t ®
ect &
1°)
C
i
o We
xref ee ck “Secret,
parte Pome’ Lota a
al
month in that Country
and he is ass
isted by an Office hoy who Speaks bett
er English
than he doesSe I am afraid that the merits of Mr. Kamiya have
been oversestimated in the past. What he lkmows about telephones,
Iam certainly not one to say, but I do know that there is no
excuse for the. English he speaks or writes. During the sumer
months, his office hours are approximately from ten in the
if he comes back after lunch
morning to two in the afternoon,
. as there
fice when there is
cine
at all. This is not altogethe
, f
ing in an ©
abe the holy . \
is little cmuee in a, man
lephone i
utterly nothing to 40+
Government approval 11


ritely <= Keehn, Sh a A ae | sail
Seer ane SN eva 4 ‘
ee
i ih ate oh j Mi I 5 Hos A
Pegs ie *,
At the time or a
demonstration OF
Oth My
Bete ey litty, rele:
further however Use y ¢
ae bez Sous
on these Cemonstra ty lev,
ng,
ee Kamiya, is,
ag
ef negothating mane A Probab
lth ey
hrough them,
17) Eg . =O r know that SPaneg,
in the past with the MA tay Edtig
Com
ynderstand the Peason =
¥
the
of local mamfacture ses J Were
a
any advice, ang as fan ane
Stati
and that in the
end we might
efit b , 6
benefit by it. I am unaware Of the-exact opinions in Chicago
regarding Japan, but as to the question of "copying" automatic |
equipment and selling it on world markets, the thing hag been
done long ago, so to refuse to manufacture there on those grounds
would be locking the barn door after the cow has deecamped.
ant to send into Japan in i
Regarding anything new, we might w be
me m
nt laws are supposed to last appro ‘.
- . ie
f « 89 for ‘
pe ynheard of ’ \ i 4
mow, 1 shall
‘ne Japanese p
the future, Japanese pate
‘to
imately ten years. Renewal secs
lack of better knowledge of
confine myself to Manchukos " oe i 4
: store
Government Te lephone sy | pee remember f Gar thag*
rs OL- Sui
: | ch
‘heir telephone Ayers aa


Ee ee %
ion < \ eas Sea x \
LZ. , at cS a a “i
. ™" ~“
s use ” ™ ’ : he
goien o Meena * Mh % *
licants aj} a ey .
phe next year g. Be " the
Gon
pusiness. Take for Xt y
t
a telephone 4, ths 8nee
as we sell Stocks,
fe) to J
gome thin ee The fe hoe (
some mae Smiun »
than it was *Seterday ae
o 89 On,
fact§ The Present average np
Premi
a "number",
and ten dollars)
If the Relies
anount and if he is in the tor
allowed te te phone S»
another year). Here are some figures reek should give a rough
idea of what condi tion the Japanese telephone system 4 is in and
how they handle At:
\
7 ITE Lal a Bf \
ee pt in the six
New Telephone subseri bers. in the fiscal year 1953 n
a ceed Munber sedate a
largest ed tt aoe: e No. of applicants w 4,000 Gig haw ,


fs.
compare these fi
¢pe new company oS 8 Wit, %
even more iron.., ig 69 "lea,
There ap a PP Ogre Rg
e
i % he Br
Automatic equi Pment PRe;,
° ° n
this figure inclug. the Ser, aa
8
8 t 0
eee Veban Dararyr, “Ube in x, ? Japan ines oe
petween the isleng o- + ®Ctions Wangs
urated during RY ste
Yin
400 are Strowger Hie KYO, gp Rainy
en
ene: F)
ceo (5g), o eleke (202)
~~ SE
x
from 3
/4 to 1/4, in our favour, The Japanese seen to think much
(8) 5 F
more of Strowger equipment, There are at the present time |
two local makers (of Strowger equipment, the Nippon Denki Cos = |
and the Okis Denki Company, ‘These two companies cooperate
very closely, and see to it that there is no competition or.
e ability, nor the 4 ee
thr oatecutting, They have not however the ability, n ie
and it is on these grounds :
ent |
a ave) hs
“*Perience, to carry on develo
third company
yenely desir
y might be incline
As you uay wide
gus of possesé- | I
that we might tie up with 4
, are ext
from my forward, the Japanese
the if
pink that ie
d due to our i}
ing every new dovenepsen 4 sei ate with
ie x ynications
3: to fav ur the fire se dia artment of
r a Fs The De
3 Bea: atories ¢
e lepora
oe nt Laperaneriee*


* x, § j4e ae me: my ‘
‘ ’ - ; <
23 * pave a scheme or a
e G ‘thin the ne "Slop,
5 S. ay : wl Xt ten . Snt
Be ‘ bs! AS s : 5 San t
St as is the Army Or the 8, Thy fala
ooth SNS ah : Na et bh
a Nts f | $0 furnish Comp] e¢ de Spare 40,05
‘ n j ec bm Part, Ren, i 0 Rey
2. leas . i] §
ea ee: meeeeceoT nc’ within mi, Hake | eg
Si, ies . : ; r i
eR pillion lines jy Bran ; Saag : b
4 Ke , *Perats, they 8t ip 3
a 1f of whi a “Pe ste
ce aaa t jy b@ hich are ty the - to hee ‘ 8
co Te C Or
a oh, ie ut Japan at th 8 any S 3Y
<a : : p = “Verac. mat; oo arg
d aes ie \ 4 . ‘ Le
~~. ” popeneetone Prange ee eae: ae
ae Pg Sing at Phones me Wily
, coe ‘ ; you can see what th t De one
5 2 2 F e Possins) Prege + hy
"alt : UN = iy . . iti 8 j
ee On : perecess ene *eqduiremens. “a . “BtLo op 2
fi ec Shay
Ore. acturer of teleph. S88ary to : Attach tp.
nee ere ame
‘ Here are Some inter he end of +
ite e8ting Piguy his
a 4 ° =)
FORMOSA Population, a "On Japan's
fre PProximatery 4 POBSesBi ons:
wee Subscriber 2500, 000 :
hy 2 Waa 13,054
Ande, ,
iy KOREA: Popu ‘
pulation, *pproximately 20
e -42Stp-: | Sub 3 7000, 000
7) ay : 4 s °
: Spibers (March 1932) 33,900
PRtkies foi on: |G 3 Ext
| ension plan in the coming five years:
yi. Je Se a New telephone subscribers: 6,740
é a] = . Acceptances: 1,348
cae 43-" ;
ar Partial budget of the Japanese Department of Communications:
Se cael (Japan proper )
il
; a 1933. = ¥ 22,800,000.
Za es oe |
yp oo 1934 = ¥ 22,800,000
em «65 )~=—- 22,800,000
56 ¥ 25,200,000 |
1937 ¥ 25,200,000
a 25,200,000
939 -¥ 29,100,000


See
a Site fle
Le
e
eee 4
; MMos nent ©
Yost bus
ait? ¥95
¢ou 60°
Es
Ha 4
can be Owne
of Japan tat by th of th
ed accordi Mane wk Coven Com
“eceratne tothe torent
- Lew
people of Japan ue jority and t
Manchury “t
The 0.
eX) :
Manehyye ety sh;
ties in th
, € propos
posed company, Paid v
to be
furnished
for such i
s. h investments, The valu
&S shall be fi cn,
d investe :
ee ixed in the fairest manner possible
sis i fy
of their present real value.
*The telephone 4n
an Leased Territory, ad the
use in Japan, Jap
railway zone, are absolutely under government
orations or individuals being
however,»
control; no corp
allowed to participate. There are, nowevers
various corporet Lone and indivi-
For that
in Manchukuo, :
dua ating tele one compe
te te : ; co orations in
reason the Pp
a telegraph service for public
eople and
. 4 ompen
yest in this 4 Pee peed placed
le


The directoy,
e
= Sud,
opie of ei then Jap ton,
p? 2
Pg
a Pass "Roig
Sh oils,
eee: oe of 8h Si be yy
p
t BO f he ] q
One Slade
Dea maaeee Compl e+
on
Res
8 1 AL Qo Then
ist of lege th
Seton ay
6 The dividends on the : :
tors
direc
th?
8 “itor,
8 of He i
s “
Beret toned te ©XC6eq » fain aNd req ™Pany shaq) Not
polders, Other tha, the :
“Titents, ‘
yates
hall be ¢ Le to dee .
8 assumed (T don't know who
by), that Maximum divideng
tended, |
Bi ios
WOE ah 253, ,
Rade nut
tment. } '
e@ rate held on the day of inves
the exchang
chukuo agains | i
te to the people of Manchu | |
#Guaran
optus 1088»
Pca ‘ national
te
qneluding all a
anys. 1 1
the companys she. |
f ua
ti business
| ; 1es of the oom
"@istrations and entries peration °
)
‘Tals fop the business °F ©
1 taxation
be exempt from erat wou kD


9, rhe company ane : eta
: .
povernmen in Cary Ve the
“ey
priate groun Sn : .
per Si 8k duties Sues, et
Q Sa,
Res
euiss and can Tai se J
=) me fey " the
giness requir Pate Vt T can
pu mo ig the : "Portas 8Dp.
10. The communi cation factis:
v
pe given in security, attach
Tol
11. The two governments of Japan
and M
They can also nullify & vote of the company, or disnt
) smiss
officials of the company,
“There will be only one government
giving instructions, however; Japan.
12, The approval of both Governnents must be obtained for
, ! | ne company
the revision of the articles of association of the comp : |
y of deben \)
4 tors, floating © it
appo charge of Direc ; 7
po pipeaesnyd ak tenne™ ges gistribution of profits, |
, dist
of cher :
ging 8 reement for 1Pys
yginess
dissolve : gs with Vi
f pusine
ac ti on 0
and trans
Ures, fixing and chen
Vote of amalgamation or
Rectric communications:
: Slectric manufac turense


Vv 8 y
Om REL sVare thee Cx Ure Wparrten |
ghe Militar OF pete tLe and GotlAtngetErae \
Se vy ay Seq Say the “Way in }
P S8ue ing he two ee | \aes
etivit °F the hey a eR Jap | ee
a ME eo | tye:
ary Ye Any loss 4 Many fo . Recess ba 1. ng
spect Shall be balanceg ,
their communication Tacilities for Railway Aty Ang |
F) 1 Routes, Tyee : |
National Police, defense » and any ark purpose inoy:, « Rabie i |
y deen
neceéssarye ie : ~~ hat
15. The company may apply to their supervising authority
should they desire to make use of the electrical communica
ity RPS:
Hons incidental to the operetion. of ‘the vadlrosds 0 ae
Q official, usee
; eutes., or those reserved. for éxolusive, f ’
ae.
of
ee
ss B
ce J :


g0e
he part
47 ° ts P 1 Clan,
Cc One
by further “8Peemeny ern y
18° The c Ompany toa
°
Qb
pect ing age mations) i “eve”
9
196 The two S°Vernng:,
as
of fifteen each to UNdent hal)
a
ake 4
of the company unden the
Joins
ments e
W heads ‘4, »
rry a tremendous ating ie
scriptions to shares,
* Articles were completed in July, subscriptions
called in August, and work begins next month,
(September).
shall be
‘le As soon as subscriptions shall be closed, they y
‘ tion made for the
Submitted to the two governments, and er the certi=
When
pany «
"8rtificate of incorporation of the ¢o Ip
hall call fo
, iret general me
ry the first
: es 8 be
Neate 1s obtained, the coumitte .
the f
ali call
"steliment, after which they shal ©
tg Of the shareholderse
Ep itra e


Qe After the Ping,
4
pant er the busines,
t
; c
eThe agreemey t
| Y fg, SRR
“a laden wasp ee Ny Gag ll.
‘oo ld tae mee OP Ope
oo 4 ; *
{ ¥ Peseta eT ee
is me ae 7
¢ Ea r ;
é 4 aa ts» * sate & ¢ .
r - . rs 3 5


. gisouss here the fon
we
munications i.
pf Com ay
EL coef alegamaeetel: PONS i deras.
a :
Tee 6
por the home produge.
ats
5 ometimes
garies § littl, e
nite requirement aboyt
of the work is in the
the comp anys
the company should have
go be #PProved ag » dior
und
rity in the investment, the bes
mot Sug! pe
dotasy
office?» Dub Benerad ayaa mo
Jani
“Panese court and the
of shares are subseribed in the name of Jap
STSto4
ppp
We ;
“Phone t by the
- Meng, : a
1
Bat 8p Qe 8d
cr bho
Ang bf a oy A Won th,
vc
Sho
a 8
es Mr enent
Sorg : *°Riveuen
: Parnes or th
Nese sho
ha:
anese, but the whole control
hand of foreigners, the Departnent do not realize
such @ company as a home maker, regardless,
of the legel, natiouslity of
GY
a
—————


se
msde and so fa
r th
S
formality for et ine
&Ppr
The maker’ cae Veg
pas to complet, = ek to
every piece has as ot sat ¥
in Osaki, Tokyo, ‘a
that is, practical x, th bee,
apparatus,
the new
mate
er a ‘small 1 goo for titel and on its success, bait approve the
4 Pe
make cofinivivelye og a5 olay
had through cass Youtine
The Nippon Denki Coe ‘and the ont weed jee
spent sbout bw years " i
ae
or the eutoma tio velephons ‘pusines
me tok ry sxan0ssfi
if we do it in one your or wont pt i ae
| se Te mite a D aie ae
ee RS “y Lore ¢
The. above | pan pat ar :


SPeAQA Baws
we Pe WL
Wn we oe ves
‘
»
He AUTOMATIC »
pesoription,
Re meneame ey
pai 1 oe eee 2 Line >
A-Noe 2 or acwae : Line einer
Bohn: 2: Rete Sidb Bae finde, 4 26,
f-Noe 3 Combineg ling PPea ‘ seakt le
A-Noe 4 Combineg lin Swito, b SWity
A-Noe 1 Regular seis oh eae
Aq-NOe 1 Regular ‘ a
Ao-M0e 2 Regular Seleq: Dank
A-Noe ro) Regular Selegt
A-Noe 4 Regular Select
fi-Noe 1 Regular selosig. ;
A-Noe 1 Regular Counaaran ue? Shelp
A-NoOe 2 Rotary Connector
A-Noe 3 Toll ana Regular
f-lHO6 Toll local Pete Sonnestor
A-Noe 1 Tost ang offera: Sonneotoy
A-Noe 1 Test and Regular oo
A-NoOe 3 500 point connector 4 ?
A-Noe 4 300 point connector an of
A-Noe 5 400 point connector bank
ArHoe 5 Connector shelf for 1) ats of 11
A-No. 4 Connector shelf for ig ateer
A-Noe 1 Ring down Repeater ee
A-Noe 1 Special fire service re .
A-Now 1 No=charge message réseau en
A-Noe 1 Roverting call relay group
A=-Noe 1 Test distributor
A-No. 2 Test distributor
A-Noe 5 Test distributor bank
A-No. 7 Test distributor bank
A-No.e 1 Miscellaneous switch shelf
Ap-No. 1 Message Register
4-No. 1 Metering relay
4=No» 1 Impulse testing mehine
A=-Noe 1 Connector testing mehine
A-No.w 1 Connector and selector test box
A=-No.e 2 Price parts for ms Ma
A-Noe 2 Supervisory signal Ce ae
AeNo. 3 Supervisory signal a ate
A=-No, 3 Superv isory signe. ont
A-No, 4 Supervisory signal equel
of selestor boards


Description
An~NOe.
Ae-Noe
AwNoe.
AmNoe. 2
: eke
generally.


S ANFRANCISCO Car,
gD 84g
0 a 84
of 3 WEST VAN Burpy <r
hee [VED THANK THE ia
: ype ORD Ou i:
a tg
: ERMRgy me
: | Loy»
3240 LAKE SHORE DR ug wa
7






sebane peasy
deere
Fe ee ee
+s8
gape 9 Be
eewovereers tes
atid eine de
4 pie aig. Nigue AN te
ceaaaebanadamedt oy ide any .
rycen ey
anak adeelg PERS eed ee sos re f
“4
3 x & ]
a ae Rae i
aa vepy evan ersten trae tnamalndag.coeatcastmnnalin games eeeten seek 4
Myo levdoncens
¥
Pie
YS RRB re en emer N
SOMONE eee nase se erg tans
eee Re eee renee rey


