T met the following important people:
Sir Alexander Roger :
Mr.Pierre Quesnay (Director-General of the Bank of
bem sernation :
Mr. Rene Pleven Br armenian
Mr. Gordon Forbes
Mr. H. S. Bennett
Mr. G. R. Williams
(Unfortunately, due to his illness, I was unable
to meet and talk with Mr. G. Ww. Moore)
Mr. T. A. Eades
Mr. A. F. Bennett
lir. W. R. Carter (Assistant to Mr. Bennett)
ir. J. Nixon (Works Manager) 2;
Mr. Parry, (Works Superintendent, Victor Works) 0)
Mr. J. C. Wrighton (Sales Manager, A.E.C.)
Mr. Max ine a Executive Officers
Dr. Herry General Electric Company
IMPORTANT PLACES VISITED:
1. Ali offices of the Associated companies in
Norfolk Street
<. Holborn Exchange
‘Be /Mayfeir Exchange
4, British Central Post Office Exchange
(Overseas Division) Nay
5. Associated offices in Melbourne House,
3 (Automatic Electric Company etc.)
6. Liverpool factories (Strowger and Victor
3 ons eo Liv erpoo Works)
{ @i : if
te 6 Loge Bee eee is y
: a ey Ne Ee il = tye ©
Saturday afternoon,
eo a “8 ; % ia : an
”


8th February 1933.
Oty oko 1% 3 ee ae
Mr. F. Quesney,
j General Manager,
, Bank of International Settlements,
; BASLE.
a
‘My dear Quesney:
} _ You know already Mr. Ernest Gann, whom you
met at my house. = ~-He is now continuing his world 6
tour, and I should be very grateful if you could,by
; giving him an opportunity of conversing with your
‘friends, help him to realise the important part played
in present day Europe by the Bank of International
Settlements, and also give him some idea of the pros-
pects *for ‘the future 24" Bes ) |
‘—— _— _
With kindest regards to you and Mr.Quesney,
Yours sincerely,


a. =
‘Sth February
Dr. G. Grabe,
Messrs. Siemens & Halske,
Wernerwerk F,
Siemensstadt-Berlin,
Dear Dr. Grabe:
This will introduce to you Mr. Ernest Gann,
Son of our Mr, G. K. Gann, whom you will no doubt re-
member visited you about eighteen months ago in
Berlin. Mr. Ernest Gann is a graduate of Yale Uni-
versity, and is now making a world tour for education-
al purposes. His father and all our friends in
Chicago have told him so many wonderful things about
Siemensstadt and your manufactures, that he considers
a visit to Wernerwerk F. one of the most interesting 6
and important items in his tour.
I have given him this letter of introduction
to you, and I would appreciate it very much if it is
possible for you to arrange for one of your assistants
to show him round, bearing in mind the educational
nature of his visit and his desire to get as much as
possible out of his journey to Berlin.
I thank you in advance for any courtesies you
may be able to show to Mr..Ernest Gann, and I hope
that one day you will give me the opportunity to recip-
rocate. aan.
d regards,


Sas ft € an
gh Arak A so Jt f
8th February 1923.
Mr. D. Galassi,
Automatic Telephones Mediterranea,
2? Piazza Castello,
MILANO. Italy.
Dear Mr. Galassi:
I am sure you know our Mr. Gann in Chicago
very well, and I am glad to introduce to you here-
with his son, Mr. Ernest Gann who, after having taken
his degree at Yale University, is now making a world
tour for educational purposes.
Mr. Ernest Gann is proposing to visit Milan,
Rome, and Naples. He is anxious to see some of the
exchanges supplied by Automatic Electric, and also to
understand our sales activities in Italy and how we
are organized there.
I would appreciate any courtesies you may
be able to show Mr. Gann personally, and l should be
glad if you could arrange for proper introductions to
be given to him in Rome and Naples.
.
With kind personal regards to you and lirs.


i, _—-—=—*s«<SWtt:« kines regards to you and Mrs.Rajchman,
ie ae.” ;
8th February 1932.
Mr. L. Rajchman,
Department Director,
League of Nations,
GENEVA.
Dear Rajchman:
I take the liberty of giving this letter of
introduction to you to Mr. Ernest Gann, a young Amer-
ican student, Mr. Gann is the son of one of my very
good friends in the United States, and is now engaged
on a world tour for educational purposes. O
ft told him his trip would be quite incomplete
if he did not give some time to a visit to Geneva and
try to realise the life and work of the League of
Nations and the International Labour Office, which
after a11 would not exist had it not been for the idea
of a great American. . |
Of course I know of nobody in the League
petter than yourself who could show to a young American
student what the League represents, and I-hope it will
be possible for you to save some of your valuable time
for Din. A190 dsr. fo 23 ) ,
ae 43
+
eo ae ae Rite. “Es
Ba OTR Fh aes ip x " ”
; Pee. Bap a ee
Sng SP Re:


“me the use of an office,
ise myself.
wherein I proceed to familiar-
» 48 closely as Possible in the Short time at
my disposal, with the Zurich Reports, the general month-
ly reports of the Managers of the Antwerp and Liverpool
. factories, and the general Sales and Progress Reports.
These studies required about two days of considerable
concentration. é
. On Wednesday I visited the Exchanges, spending
' the entire day talking with the employees and, as much
as possible, with the officials. I think it might be
; interesting to repeat here a list I made for myself of
the English wage scale. Approximately these are the
wages prevailing in the Holborn Exchange, London:
q Bo 25/- (Approx.$ 5 per week)
4 Taut tore and so forth 48/- mn $10
4 Skilled workmen — 60/- tn $12 n
q n Class 2 64/- " 13 tt
4 n it_otass de opolig0/4 n $160 8
{ Switchboard Operators (girls) 60/- ee th "
i Be ge ad shank it might be rather ini creitine for
you to know that the Chief Engineer ot charge of the
4 ay jeAeD : f
ee ‘Exchange (which Riv gat that he. is in aan ee Ok |
+, wa te (er fe, | and
be hee nent) received oe oy PLR ‘
> i @* ; —
i ~~ ey has ie
. Led i


= S*+
4 certainly not satisfied, nor considered that he was re-
ceiving anywhere near his worth; granted that this is a
natural attitude for anyone to take, I think it is inter-
esting to note that the British employee is not as easi-
q ly satisfied as most Americans seem to believe.
The problem of Government control of telephones
in this country, as far as I could determine, is not a
problem, but a success. The employees! vacations range 6
from two to eight weeks, with pay. As far as I know,
this condition does not exist in America.
In my inspection of the exchanges Iws particu-
larly impressed by the neatness, the general cleanliness,
and the organisation. Many of the minor attendants, such
as messengers and so forth, wore uniforms, and although
I realize that the uniform isa British failing, I think
in some cases it could be applied to the U.S.factories.
This system also prevails in the Liverpool factories.
I have been particularly observant regarding the
various types of instruments in use in London. Person-
ally, I find them all very unwieldy, quite heavy, and cer-
TT Bie aan bata those produced in the States.
3.


Ei Polaris
Sth February 1933,
<3
m ’ F id
Mr. Leon Baranski,
“Assistant General Manager,
Bank of Poland,
WARSAW.
Dear Mr. Baranski:
. ie I have pleasure in giving this letter
4 introduction to you to a young graduate of Yale.
; University, Mr. Ernest Gann, who is the sone of one
of my very good friends in America, and who is now
making a world tour for educational purposes.
I have recommended him strongly to go through
Poland, and I expect that after having been to Warsaw
he will go to Upper Silesia and then to Budapest. I
§ should appreciate it very much if you could save some
‘ of your valuable time to explain to Mr. Gann the reasons
why, alone amongst all other Continental countries in
. this part of Europe, Poland was able to maintain its
E currency on a gold basis without having recourse to
restrictions on foreign exchange dealings and so on.
a Also I should be very glad if you could give
4 some information to Mr. Gann on the strong features of
the Polish situation, such as the very small indebted-
ness of the country, its well balanced foreign trade,
its growing population, etc.
®
e for any courtesies you
I thank you in advance !
gien.* show to Mr. Gann, and remain, dear ur.
= .
es Save
: OS Ww wy Bs
; Ts Mae oy ee


8th February 1923.
Monsieur Jean Mosny, \ telah
_ Avocat A la Court de Paris,
6 rue de Berri,
Be SP Ee»
My dear Jean:
, This letter is to introduce to you a young
American student, Mr. Ernest Gann, who is the son of
} one of my very good friends in the United States. Mr.
Ernest Gann is a graduate of Yale University, and is
now making a world tour for educational purposes.
f | I think Mr. Gann knows several persons in. O
; Paris already who will probably show him those parts
of French life which it is usual to show to foreigners,
but I told him that you would be the best possible
guide to some of the less well known aspects, such
5 as for instance, the Law Courts and their life.
¥ * J would be glad if you could save him some
3 of your valuable time, and I can assure you I shall
be very grateful for any courtesies you may be able
to show Mr. Gann during his short stay.
Yours,


Gt Pairuaey> LBZ,
bansieur ) fam Womny, 8th February 1922,
RSrreet « * VOourt Ae Pavds
, ey Ge Carrt,
Royall Tyler Esq., Riis
Representative of the Financial Committee
of the League of Nations in Hungary,
c/o U. S. Legation,
BUDAPEST.
>>
)
My dear Tyler:
Hy I take the liberty of giving this letter of
introduction to a young American student, Mr. Ernest
Gann, who is the son of one of my colleagues in Chica-
go, and after taking his degrees at Yale is making a
world tour for educational purposes.
_ In this connection I think it is proper for
Mr. Gann to see that part of Central Europe which has
suffered more severely than anyone else from the World
Crisis, and I thought perhaps you would be good enough
to save some of your time to explain to him the reas-
ons for the bad situation of Hungary, and perhaps to
tell him your views on pessible remedies,
I can assure you that I shall appreciate
very much any courtesies you may be able to show Mr.
Gann during his short stay in Budapest.
With kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
R. PLEVEN,


TE Ee TS EES on RR ag
£18, Stafford House,
Norfolk Street, Strand,
London, W. C. &.
‘9th February 1933.
Mr. G. K. Gann,
CHICAGO,
Dear Mr. Gann:
Your son Ernest left to-day for Paris on a
new hop of his long journey, and I believe he was satis-
fied with what he saw in England. He spent the first
week in London, where I endeavoured to acquaint him with
the members of our organization, and also arranged for
him to have some interesting visits. Then he went by
road to Liverpool, where he saw the factory, and also to
Prescot, where is located the British Insulated plant,
Grove back the day before yesterday, and left to-day.
I was very pleased to meet him. He is an at-
tractive young man, full of ideas and "pep", I think
everyone here has liked him. I can assure you he takes
his journey quite seriously, understands that you have
given him a wonderful opportunity, and is always eager
to learn, seek advice, and discover things of interest.
I got to like him very much during his short stay, and
tried to give him my best advice. I send you herewith
copies of some letters of introduction which I handed
him before his departure, and which will give you an
idea of the field I advised him to cover while in
Europe.
I have suggested to him that his best plan
would be to go from Paris to Portugal, which he can do
by sea, then from Portugal to Morocco, and through !
Algiers and Tunis to Italy, Switzerland, Belgium, Ber-
lin, Poland, Hungary, Vienna, where he can decide
whether to go to Constantinople by land or by sea from
Venice or Trieste. While discussing his projects and
ring | lans I thought how much I should like to
with a father good enough to allow me
rip. . P: :
»
nak PY, = 7
follow his moveme
J


» eB
“ vi a, allel
_~*
6th February 1933.
Mr. A. de Bondini,
Automatic Telephones Mediterranea,
» 27 Piazza Castello,
My dear Bondini:
Mr. Ernest Gann, to whom I give this letter of
introduction, is the son of one of my very good friends
in the United States who is also a Vice-President of
the Associated Telephone and Telegraph Company.
-. Mr. Gann is a graduate of Yale University and
is now on a world tour for educational purposes. lI
should be glad if you would help Mr. Gann to get a view
of our business in Italy, and also to see all the inter-
esting sights. of your beautiful country. I told him he
could not have a better guide than you, and I would ap-
preciate greatly any courtesies you may be able to show
Mr. Gann.
I would mention also ape boleadien: Vatone °°
visit Rome and Naples, and I hope you will be able to
i heat des ae to some of your friends in those cities.
Mr, Gann is also going to Venice, and perhaps you could
introduce him to the great architect of St. Mark.
“ai Yours eincerely,


Mr. L. W. Smeltze
Automatic Sales & ins
- Dear Mr. Smeltzer:;
This letter will introduce to you Mr.
Gann, the son of our Mr. G. K. Gann, Viera decal
of the Associated Telephone and Telegraph Company,
whom you probably know. Mr. Ernest Gann is a gradu-
ate of Yale University, and his father has offered him
the opportunity of making a world tour.
I should be glad if you could show him the
work being done by our organisation in Upper Silesia,
and I am sure this will interest him immensely.
I should appreciate any courtesies you may be
, able to show to Mr. Gann during his short stay in
Poland, and remain, dear Mr. Smeltzer,
Yours very truly,
>» ~R. PLEVEN.


